TITLE:		On the subcritical bifurcation at the onset of three-
		dimensionality in the cylinder wake
              
AUTHORS:	Akbar T, Bouchet, G & Dusek, J

SUBMITTED TO: 	J Fluid Mech

REVIEW:       	First

I'm afraid I have to suggest that the manuscript be rejected. The main
reasons being:

1. According to statements made in section 2, the problem studied is
not the transition of a cylinder wake, but the wake of a ring of
aspect ratio 500 (presumably this is the ratio of ring mean diameter
to cross-section diameter but it is not defined). It is unclear why
this alteration was made, perhaps because the authors had access to a
cylindrical coordinate solver rather than a Cartesian coordinate one.
This means that the symmetry of the base flow is different to that of
the flow past a circular cylinder, and what is being examined is the
transition of a perturbation of the cylinder wake, now subject to two
control parameters, Reynolds number and aspect ratio.  The distinction
between the Z2 x O(2) spatio-temporal symmetry group of the circular
cylinder wake and the O(2) spatio-temporal symmetry group of the ring
wake is discussed briefly in Blackburn, Marques & Lopez (2005), J
Fluid Mech 522:395-411.  The lack of Z2 spatio-temporal symmetry in
the ring wake (as compared to the cylinder wake) means for example
that period-doubling instabilities can arise in the ring wake whereas
they are suppressed in the cylinder wake and must be quasi-periodic
instead. While this relates more to mode C/QP than mode A, the primary
secondary instability of the cylinder wake, the effect when non-linear
studies are undertaken (as in the present manuscript) is unclear.

In addition, even quite small perturbations of curvature can have an
effect on transition dynamics, as shown for example by Faisst &
Eckhardt (2000), Transition from the Couette-Taylor system to the
plane Couette system, Phys Rev E 61/6:7277-7230.   One reason may be that in this case, the continuous portion of the spectrum present in the plane Couette system is replaced by discrete eigenfrequencies in the the Couette-Taylor system.

The point is that in order to draw conclusions about fine detail of
transition dynamics, the authors should use a Cartesian-coordinate
solver.  If a cylindrical coordinate method is used, the authors need
to demonstrate that there is no perceptible influence of
curvature. For clarity it seems better to use the coordinate system in
which the original problem is posed.

2. The next problem is that it is not clear what new information is
obtained that was not already shown in the paper of Henderson
(1997). The authors seem to agree with Henderson's main
conclusions. The principal new feature is the occurence of slantwise
(or, in cylindrical coordinates, helical) shedding as a state that can
be found in DNS. However it is clear that the length scale of
slantwise shedding depends on the domain length and the adoption of
periodic boundaries: in the infinite-length limit, parallel shedding
will result.  If the authors were to introduce a Cartesian-coordinate
solver as asked for above, they would still need to make very clear
what new conclusions they are able to offer, compared to Henderson (1997).

3. Finally, the results show clear evidence of mesh artefacts, even in
the primitive solution variables (e.g figures 5, 9, 10, 12, 13, and
especially clearly, figure 15). This possibly doesn't affect the main
conclusions, although the authors point out that the spatial
resolution used is typically marginal (e.g. page 8, and just before
section 5.1 on page 14). In addition, the integration times are
typically low (of order only 25 shedding periods), so it is never
clear that the authors are able to present results that are free of
transient effects, i.e. that represent statistically asymptotic
states. So as well as addressing the two points above, the authors
need to convince us that they have used enough spatio-temporal
resolution and integration time.





