TITLE:        Self-similar vortex clusters in the logarithmic region

AUTHORS:      del Alamo, Jimenez, Zandonade and Moser

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluid Mechanics

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

This is an interesting paper that links DNS structure-based
descriptions of the turbulent boundary layer with statistical analysis
to provide an argument to explain the self-similarity of the
logarithmic region.  I found it interesting and well-written, and feel
it is very appropriate for publication in JFM.  Given the large amount
of work involved, the authors have been commendably brief and to the
point in their treatment.

I have a few points that the authors should consider in formulating a
minor revision.

1. Definitions: I don't think the authors told us anywhere what their
working definition of the y+ extents of the various layers was. And
I don't believe either that they supplied their normalisation of
the velocity gradient (and hence, D).

2. Referencing: somewhere in the first two paragraphs of section 2 the
authors should point out that, while the 1990 paper of Chong et
al. did propose the use of D to define a vortex, this idea was first
applied to the study of turbulent boundary layer structure in the
paper by Blackburn et al. (1996) and soon after by Chong et
al. (1998).

3. Figure 1: Should "enstrophy densities" be "enstrophy spectral
densities"?  (Similarly, later on there is talk of "density" when
volume density is meant.)  And, when they talk about the "central
curve" in figure 1 I found this at first confusing because in effect
they meant one curve out of the central set of curves. I suggest some
revision either to the figure or the caption to lessen possible
confusion.  What was the reason for concentrating on the spanwise
vorticity here, rather than say the streamwise? Finally, could the
authors give some commentary as to the reasons for the various y+
locations of maxima in figures 1 and 3(a)?

4. Figure~6: It might help to give also some wall-parallel views of
these structures.

5. Figure~7 and text: a brief note to explain that by supplying
spectral densities of Reynolds shear stress the authors are trying to
give some information about its spatial distribution would be helpful.

6. Sentence 2, p. 12: "are determined" should be "is determined".

7. Last sentence. p. 13: what is "S"?

8. Figure 13: I would like to see a close-up view showing the shape of
the D isosurface. Also could we have some vorticity lines? What I am
trying to get at here is this: what is the relationship between this
conditionally averaged velocity field and either other proposed shapes
of "typical" wall vortex structures? If such a comparison makes no
sense, tell us why.

9. Top of page 25: does it make any sense to say "We personally"? Why
not just "We"? Next sentence: should "exclusive of" read "exclusive
to"?
