TITLE:        Numerical prediction of vortex-induced vibration
              of marine risers
              
AUTHORS:      Agazuma NH, Kara F & Allwood RL

SUBMITTED TO: J Fluids Structures

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

A Fluent-based study of 2D flow past a circular cylinder with URANS
and various turbulence models. The cylinder is either fixed or forced
to oscillate cross-flow. Despite the title the results presented do
not encompass vortex-induced vibration (VIV). The connection to marine
risers is tenuous as it turns out the manuscript only deals with
spanwise-averaged 2D flow past a circular section.


RECOMMENDATION

I'm afraid that I can only recommend the manuscript be rejected. I do
not believe that the work can readily be brought to journal
publication standard. The authors present a rather naive understanding
of the VIV area and also of fluid mechanics and CFD.

POINTS

1. As stated above the authors do not actually present results for
VIV, rather for flow past a fixed cylinder and one in forced
cross-flow oscillation, and the connection to marine riser application
is weak.

2. The Introduction is over-long, laboured, and with too much space
given to well-know historical material. There are a few howlers, such
as "The vortex shedding mechanism enables an aircraft wing to produce
lift that is essential for flight."

3. When it comes to turbulence modelling the authors say they used RANS
when in fact they adopt unsteady RANS or URANS. In section 2.1 they
state that the RANS equations are obtained by time-averaging the
Navier-Stokes equations but do not seem to appreciate that this
removes any temporal variation. (The assumed process is instead
ensemble averaging). The equation at the top of page 4 uses the
variable p 4 times whereas it should be one instance of p and 3 of rho
(density).  The same mistake recurs in the succeeding line that
describes the Reynolds stress. No statements are made about the use of
wall models, so we are left uncertain if these were employed
(presumably not).

4. The treatment of the numerical method in section 3 is also very
naive. The size of the cylinder is supplied as a dimensional
variable. We are never told the size of the computational domain and
while a spatial convergence test is said to have been carried out, no
quantitative data is provided to back this up, nor is it clear which
Reynolds number it has been done for. There is a study of time-step
size but the timesteps should be presented in dimensionless form so
that we can get a clear ides of their size relative to the Strouhal
period.

5. In the remainder of the paper, results are presented for laminar
and turbulent flow past the 2D cylinder both fixed and in forced
oscillation. Presumably no turbulence model is used for the laminar
flows. Results are presented for turbulent flow past a stationary
cylinder at Re=500, which is rather low for URANS to be able to be
considered valid. Results for various turbulence models are compared
(Table 5) but the source of the experimental data that forms the basis
of comparison is not stated. Similar problems occur through the
remainder of the manuscript, and the overall effect is to undermine
one's confidence in the results.

6. The new contribution of the work is never made explicit.  I was
left wondering what was learned that could not have been found before
with similar (URANS) approaches, such as in the works by Guilmineau
and Quetey.

