TITLE:        Onset of oscillatory binary fluid convection in
              three-dimensional cells

AUTHORS:      A. Alonso and O. Batiste

SUBMITTED TO: Taylor--Couette meeting

REVIEW:	      First


SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

The paper addresses theoretically and numerically the onset of
convection cells in a binary fluid mixtures, and how the presence of
transverse walls affects this. The main focus is on fluids with
negative separation ratios, for which the onset of instability occurs
through travelling waves. I found the paper interesting, clear, and
easy to read. Given a few minor corrections it can be accepted.

POINTS TO BE ADDRESSED
----------------------

1. The very last sentence on p.1 begins "If S>0 ...". I think that
probably this should be "If S<0 ...". At least, it is the same as the
sign of S given two sentences previously, and therefore seems wrong.

2. In figure 1, there seems to be an experimental data point missing
from the critical wavenumber vs aspect ratio graph. My understanding
(from table 1) is that the value should be 3.278.

3. Para.2, p.6. The authors state: "... the primary bifurcation is
subcritical and gives rise to unstable patterns".  Are these patterns
really unstable, or do they just move (i.e., are they travelling
waves)?

4. The point could be made that the travelling waves appear as
stationary patterns in a reference frame travelling at wave speed.

5. I found myself wondering a little about fluid mixtures and their
separation ratios. Could the authors give some examples of mixtures
with both positive and negative separation ratios? Are negative
separation ratios predominant in technological applications? A little
information of this kind would add to the overall interest of the
subject material. What is it about the physics of negative separation
ratios that induces travelling wave instabilities?

ENGLISH USAGE
-------------

Generally, this was very good, but here are some issues the authors
might want to address:

6. First sentence, p.2, following "hotter region", the text could
better read: "with the Soret diffusion having a ...".

7. In the last sentence of para.2,p.2, "not published" should be "no
published".

8. Para.2,p.5,s.3: "being the selected" should be "with the selected".

9. In a few instances, words seem to be transposed, compared to what
they should be. E.g.: p.1,para.1,s.4: "produces also" should be "also
produces". Last sentence, first para, p.7: "above described" should be
"described above".
