DP0988146
Jannette Frandsen
Univ Sydney
Kinetic modelling of water waves and bluff-body boundary layer physics

1. Significance and Innovation
------------------------------
Score: 80

This is an interesting proposal to extend the comparatively new
Lattice Boltzmann (LB) flow-simulation technique to flows which
involve free surfaces with wave breaking, and fluid-structure
interaction (FSI). It is not clear how innovative the proposed
methodology is however, since one can find (admittedly very recent)
published work that combines LB and the volume of fluid (VOF) method
to deal with free-surface flows which also have (non-elastic) FSI
(e.g. Thurey & Rude, Comput Visual Sci DOI
10.1007/s00791-008-0090-4). The present proposal is built around
hybridizing the same methods to compute free-surface flows, so it
would be interesting to know how the details, or proposed focii of
application, differ.

2. Approach and Methodology
---------------------------
Score: 70

One reaction I had to the proposal was that while there was a large
amount of background supplied, there seemed to be a lack of
appropriate detail on the actual work to be carried out. In table 1,
six strands of work are listed but at least on the copy I received the
associated timetable did not seem populated (perhaps because the
timetable information was coloured in but did not reproduce in black
and white). Combined with the fact that a number of tasks were said to
run in parallel I was left confused regarding the organisation of the
project. It is also not clear if all the developments listed in table
1 are to be integrated within the same code base. Near the start of
E4, we are told that the "numerical model will be based on a 3-D LB NS
solver on unstructured octree grids". Is this an existing solver, or
is it proposed to develop it from scratch within the project? If
existing, could it be referenced? For the proposed elastic FSI using
the lattice spring model, how would distortion of the elastic grid
affect the fluid computational grid?  Are there likely to be problems
associated with resolving highest structural vibration frequency as
opposed to what is required for the fluid LB model?


3. National Benefit
-------------------
Score: 80

Undoubtedly the study of FSI with wave-breaking free-surface flows is
important with regard to the exploitation of Australia's offshore
resources, and this work could make a significant contribution.

4. Research Team Track Record, Overall Score
--------------------------------------------
Score: 80

The CI has a very strong research record relative to the amount of
time since graduation and significant teaching duties at a number of
institutions.  The publications, and the CI's previous work before
higher degree study, are also right in the area of application.

5. How Could This Proposal Be Improved
--------------------------------------

In general, my feeling is that the proposal is over-ambitious. In E2,
page 21, we are told "In order to have a model which can account for
wave breaking accurately one may have to capture scales at the
mesoscopic level or even at the atomistic level. This is the major
question proposed to answer". I would suggest that (if this is indeed
the major question) the proposal be changed so that it specifically
addresses this issue, explains how it proposed to do answer the
question, and gives the linkages to important further questions and
applications.

Obviously also from my comments above I suggest we have more detail on
the timing of the various strands of research.

6. Any Other Comments
---------------------
