DP0987993
Zhou, Cheng, Zhao
Univ WA
Wake characteristics of circular cylinders with vortex-induced
vibration suppression devices

1. Significance and Innovation
------------------------------
Score: 75

The research project does address an important applications area of
national priority, that of improving ability to exploit deep-water
hydrocarbon reserves. The research is relatively fundamental but if it
does discover effective means of disrupting vortex shedding on
cylindrical structures, the findings would rapidly be put to use. It
should be noted that the area of research is comparatively mature in
that a large amount of work on related devices has already taken place
over the last half-century, however, novel approaches are welcome.

2. Approach and Methodology
---------------------------
Score: 80

Effectively two separate PhD-based investigations into different means
of disrupting vortex shedding (and hence reducing associated mean and
fluctuating structural loads and dynamic response) from slender
circular cylinders are proposed.

<p>

One PhD will investigate a comparatively mature technology (helical
strakes) but with two new features (a) displacing/venting their
junction with the cylinder surface in the hope of reducing the drag
force, (b) effect of cylinder yaw relative to freestream flow, and
two-cylinder interaction for unvented strakes. This will be
experimental (wind tunnel and towing-tank) work performed at UWA under
supervision of CI T Zhou.  Point statistics of the wake flows and also
cylinder force measurements will be obtained in the wind
tunnel. Visual-based techniques will be used to obtain flow-structure
information in the towing tank.  I would suggest that it is likely to
be difficult to reliably measure anything other than time-average
forces in the wind tunnel, owing to the comparatively large structural
density.  It will also be difficult to compare any vortex-induced
vibration (VIV) results between the two facilities owing to the large
difference in relative structural densities of the cylinder models in
water and air. Thus the experiments are most likely to be able to
provide information on mean (i.e. drag) forces and disruption of
vortex shedding rather than force/response measurements directly
related to VIV.  The overlap (or otherwise) of Reynolds number
capability of the two UWA facilities, and the implications this will
have on comparing the results obtained, was not discussed.

<p>

Still, these would be useful measurements, as any way of reducing
vortex-induced loads on sub-sea risers will increase the possibility
of exploiting hydrocarbon reserves in sites that are currently
uneconomic.

<p>

The other PhD investigation concerns the possible effect of V-groove
jacket and partial V-groove jacketting (V-groove rings) in disrupting
vortex shedding.  This is primarily a CFD investigation to be
supervised by CIs Cheng and Zhao.  There is to be some related
(overseas-funded) PhD experimental work to be carried out in the
Hong-Kong water-tunnel lab of PI Y Zhou, although no details of the
proposed experiments are discussed, nor is their relationship to the
CFD work - thus the contribution of PI Zhou to the present proposal is
unclear.

<p>

While there can be some effect of V-grooves on reducing drag in
(flat-plate-type) turbulent boundary-layer dominated flows, my
understanding is that this relies on the grooves having a cross-flow
length scale of the same order of the (typically small) near-wall
turbulent structures. It is not at all clear that there could be a
similar effect in cylinder-type flows (at least, at the Reynolds
numbers to be considered), especially in reducing loads, although
there could certainly be an effect, and this is worth investigating.
The grooves will probably need to be a reasonable size compared to the
cylinder diameter in order that they can be adequately resolved in the
CFD investigation.

3. National Benefit
-------------------
Score: 80

Ways of reducing average and fluctuating loads on offshore risers will
have a benefit by helping to open currently uneconomic subsea reserves
to exploitation.  This is true both globally and for the Australian
economy, thus I would agree that the project contributes to the
National Research Priority of Frontier Technologies for Building and
Transforming Australian Industries. Also the project would make a
national contribution through the training of high-quality research
students.

4. Research Team Track Record, Overall Score
--------------------------------------------
Score: 85

Collectively the team has a very strong research record and have also
previously worked together on a number of research projects, including
projects in the present area of research. The team has an appropriate
variety of skills and experience to tackle the project.

5. How Could This Proposal Be Improved
--------------------------------------

For the UWA experimental programme, some more detail of what will be
attempted by way of force and dynamic structural measurement, as well
as the relationship between the air/water-based experiments, would be
useful.

<p>

For the primarily CFD-based program, clarify the contribution of PI
Zhou. Please also state if ALE for two-cylinder systems is still to be
implemented and if so, is this a PhD student task.

6. Any Other Comments
---------------------
