TITLE:        CFD simulations of vibrating sub-boundary layer vortex
              generators for diffuser flow separation control
              
AUTHORS:      KA Armad & JK Watterson

SUBMITTED TO: Aerospace Science & Technology

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

The mansucript deals with URANS/ALE simulation of subsonic diffuser duct
flow where the boundary layer in the upstream duct is influenced by
oscillating triangular vanes. The code used is Fluent, SST-k-w
turbulence model, with second-order spatial schemes.  The results
certainly suggest that oscillating vortex generators could have a
profound influence on the flow in the diffuser.

OVERALL ASSESSMENT

The results are interesting enough to deserve publication but the
supplied manuscript does not give enough depth to justify a
full-length article. There are only six pages of text and nine
figures. No attempt is made to explain the physics of how the VGs
inflence the flow; as the simulations must have been done with an
unsteady solver the authors must have access to a great deal of both
instantaneous and statistcal data that could be used to provide us
with this understanding. I recommend that the authors resubmit as a
technical note or similar (if AST has these), or expand the work to
provide sufficient depth to justify a full paper. Some of the points
below need to be considered even if the first of these two options is
pursued.

OTHER POINTS

1. Given the difficulty of simulating detached/reattaching flow with
RANS, the authors really should be more careful about their claim
(abstract and conclusions) that SBVGs "are able" to suppress flow
separation here. I should say their results "suggest" that flow
separation could be suppressed, but that experimental verification is
required. 

2. The authors state that active flow control can be tuned so as to
"produce no parasite drag". Yet they give no global results on
total pressure recovery for their present work; I feel that the work
would be stonger if they could supply a comparison of this value for
the various cases analyzed.

3. The explanation about the use of BCs to produce co- or
counter-rotating vortices should be given in section 2.

4. What is the influence on the results of turbulence model and grid
resolution?  

5. The authors state that in the absence of VGs "a good prediction" of
the experimental duct flow is obtained with the k-w model. Yet in
figure 2 the agreement of mean profiles does not in fact seem very
good in detail; could we have a law-of-the-wall comparison plot of the
two profiles to justify this statement? 

6. No primary reference is given to the work of Buice & Eaton although
it is mentioned in the manuscript.

7. Some terms/correlations are unexplained or unreferenced. For
example, equation 2.4 needs a supporting reference. Likewise eq (2.7).

8. Section 2, second sentence: I would have said that the mesh is
deforming, rather than moving. To me a moving mesh is one that
experiences solid-body motion without deforming.

9. All values should be given in dimensionless form.

10. Prior to eq (2.5): "Hook's Law" --> "Hooke's Law".
