TITLE:        The influence of stenoses on pulse wave propagation
              in large arteries

AUTHORS:      Bessems, Rutten and van de Vosse

SUBMITTED TO: J Fluid Mech

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

The work addresses lumped-parameter modelling of the pressure drop
through smooth rigid axisymmetric stenoses in steady and pulsatile
flow based on fitting to axisymmetric CFD results.  The motivation is
to provide simplified models suitable for use with 1D models of
arterial flows. The starting point for the modelling and main basis of
comparison is a lumped-parameter ansatz presented by Young and
co-workers in the mid-1970s.

RECOMMENDATION

While the motivation is worthy and the results potentially interesting
I cannot recommend acceptance of the manuscript by JFM without very
substantial revisions being undertaken.

MAIN POINTS

1. Almost all the results are presented in dimensional variables,
which is not suitable for JFM articles, where the focus is on
fundamental flow physics and where by convention dimensionless forms
are employed.  All the results, equations, and modelled coefficients
need to be given dimensionless forms.

2. An annoying feature of the presentation is that when the results do
not fit Young's ansatz, new terms are added seemingly on an ad-hoc
basis to improve the curve fitting e.g. $\Delta p_c$ in (3.8). It
would be better perhaps to build in and justify this degree of
flexibility with the form of the equations at the outset. Likewise
various other terms such as $L_u$ (3.10) are summarily introduced
without adequate physical motivation. In summary: the manuscript seems
to descend into curve fitting rather than establish physical
motivation for the forms used.

3. The fact that the flow might not in reality be axisymmetric for
various combinations of Womersely and Reynolds numbers under
investigation gets scant attention. (Nor do any of the more recent
numerical investigations on transition and turbulence in this area -
e.g. Sherwin & Blackburn 2005; Varghese, Frankel & Fischer 2007 -
receive any mention.) Thus in figures 14 and 15, the basis for
comparison of the lumped parameter model is to the current computed 2D
results and to the model of Young that includes just one term to deal
with turbulent losses. In reality neither of these two predictions may
do an adequate job at this point in parameter space, and appropriate
caveats need to be issued to the reader.

4. The numerical convergence of the underlying simulation data is
poorly established. Firstly I was very surprised that at Re=100 and
FOR A STRAIGHT TUBE although admittedly for pulsatile flow, the CFD
could only match the analytical results for pressure to 2%. One might
reasonably expect 0.2% or indeed much better. The description of the
mesh refinement test for stenotic flow at Re=100 ("no significant
improvement") is similarly unconvincing. As a result I'm afraid I have
little faith in the presented results said to be for Re=334 or 688 -
the authors need to be much more careful in this area, and present
tabulated summaries of convergence testing outcomes in order to
convince the reader.

OTHER POINTS TO BE ADDRESSED

5. At many places the authors refer to oscillatory flow when they are
describing pulsatile flow (the distinction being that oscillatory flow
has no time-mean value).

6. A few variables are used without definition or are poorly
defined. For example: "the flow $q$" just before (1.1) -- here, $q$ is
a volumetric flow rate and should be thus described.

7. Near the start of section 3 we read "... the (partial) pressure
recovery distal to the stenosis neck are a result of the change in
cross-sectional area of the lumen vessel, according to Bernoulli's
law.  The recovery of pressure distal to the stenosis is retarded
because of the presence of a recirculation zone that locally
influences the cross-sectional area ...".  This seems to attribute too
much to inviscid fluid mechanics (and the power of Bernoulli's
equation), which may do a reasonable job in explaining pressure drop
leading into the throat, but cannot deal adequately with pressure
recovery in the presence of flow separation.

8. Figures 9 and 10 should be consolidated. Figures 9a and 10a are
basically the same except for the fitted curves on the latter.

9. Various parts of the manuscript seem mis-placed, for example the
material at the end of the Discussion on non-Newtonian effects and on
wall compliance would more properly be placed in the Introduction.
Material at the very start of the the Discussion to my mind belongs in
the Conclusion.

10. I didn't understand what the authors meant on page 8 regarding the
"ambiguity" of figure 7.
