TITLE:        Poloidal-toroidal decomposition in a finite cylinder.
              I. Influence matrices for the magnetohydrodynamic equations

AUTHORS:      P Boronski and LS Tuckerman

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Computational Physics

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

Manuscript describes dealing with MHD equations for flow in a finite
cylinder using divergence-free spectral basis functions and influence
matrices to decouple boundary and compatibility conditions for
potentials in the NSE (this builds on earlier work by Marques). An
extension of the method to deal with the induction equation is
described, but this is apparently not yet tested for the fully 3D
problem of the finite cylinder.

While in a manuscript this dense mathematically one must take a
certain amount on trust, I found the explanations cogent and
believable. The manuscript is well written. I recommend that the
manuscript be accepted, even given the apparent incompleteness of the
methods described for coupling the external and internal magnetic
fields.

These are points the authors could consider in making a revision:

MAIN POINTS
-----------

1. While solenoidal basis functions are obviously a good idea for B,
there are other methods (referenced) that add an artificial "magnetic
pressure" field to maintain B as divergence-free. It would be good to
have some discussion of how well that alternative approach is liable
to work in practice, perhaps to help motivate the present treatment.

2. The time-integration discussed is all backward-Euler on implicit
parts - this seems quite restrictive. Please discuss extension to
higher order.

3. Apparently in equation (2.2), psi is the toroidal potential and psi
is the poloidal potential. If so, could this be pointed out and given
a brief explanation.

4. On page 3 it is stated that "We consider specifically the case in
which the flow is driven by rotating upper and lower disks, although
our method does not depend on this". Please clarify this. Is anything
in the formulation as supplied specific to these BCs? If not, why
state them here? Is the method perhaps specific to Dirichlet BCs on
velocity on the boundary?

MINOR POINTS
------------

5. Line 4, page 3 "and none on vorticity" -> "but not for vorticity".

6. In the printout I have, Reference 6 had a big problem.

7. Stray right brace, last para p 28.

8. No reference to Speetjens' thesis [30] seen in text? But also, he
has a paper that might be relevant/more readily available:
@Article{spcl05, author = {M. F. M. Speetjens and H. J. H. Clercx},
title = {A Spectral Solver for the {Navier--Stokes} Equations in the
Velocity--Vorticity Formulation}, journal = IJCFD, year = 2005, volume
= 19, number = 3, pages = {191--209} }


