TITLE:        Poloidal-toroidal decomposition in a finite cylinder.
              II. Discretization, regularization and validation.

AUTHORS:      P Boronski and LS Tuckerman

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Computational Physics

REVIEW:	      First

Obviously this review follows on from the review for Part I. Part II
deals with application of the divergence-free method developed in Part
I to the solution of incompressible flow in a finite cylinder with
rotating end walls (but without MHD).  Again I think the manuscript is
good and should ultimately be accepted, but I do have a question I
would like the authors to respond to:

Often, papers that deal with solving NS problems by spectral methods
in cylindrical coordinates do not actually demonstrate spectral
convergence of the method for flows that are non-axisymmetric at the
axis (largely owing to lack of suitable analytical solutions). Here is
a possible exception, because we are shown a method by which the
elliptic solver is tested with polynomial forcings of various
wavenumber, and for which analytical solutions have been obtained (one
such is presented for the axisymmetric case). This does not however
amount to a complete test for the flow solution in velocity variables,
and the authors supplement that testing by comparing to other computed
results for rotor-stator flows. However, these concentrate on temporal
characterictics and bifurcation points, not spectral convergence, and
also deal with flows that approach axisymmetry at the axis, so do not
provide convincing evidence of spectral convergence for general
non-axisymmetric flows.

It is possible to construct tests based on analytic solutions
(typically obtained in Cartesian coordinates) that are
non-axisymmetric when expressed in cylindrical coordinates, see

@Article{blsh04, author = {H. M. Blackburn and S. J. Sherwin}, title =
{Formulation of a {Galerkin} Spectral Element--{Fourier} Method for
Three-Dimensional Incompressible Flows in Cylindrical Geometries},
journal = JCP, year = 2004, volume = 197, number = 2, pages =
{759--778} }

and I suggest the authors try such a test in order to confirm spectral
convergence of their method for non-axisymmetric flows. In order to
test cases like this, one must however be able to set arbitrary
Dirichlet BCs on velocity all over the boundary of the domain. While
it is not entirely clear to me if the authors' method can deal with
this, I think that the influence matrix technique should be
sufficiently general to do it. If so, this would be a convincing test.




