TITLE:        Flow past an oscillating circular cylinder in a channel
              
AUTHORS:      Celik, Akdag, Gunes & Beskok

SUBMITTED TO: Phys Fluids

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

A numerical study of 2D flow in a channel with an upstream splitter
plate, Reynolds number=100, blockage ratio=1/3. Fixed cylinder plus
forced oscillation at amplitude 0.4D, various frequency ratios around
primary synchronization.

RECOMMENDATION

I'm afraid I can't recommend publication in the present form. The main
reason is that there is an upstream splitter plate (which is only
mentioned in passing) that comes to within 2D upstream of the front of
the cylinder, and has unknown influence on the flow dynamics -- the
presence of the splitter seems to make this a rather specific study,
and will certainly have significantly influenced the inflow velocity
profile.  A primary cited motivation for the work is to study the
effects of cylinder oscillation in the confined channel on mixing, and
the presence of the splitter plate certainly indicates a future
introduction of a scalar in one inlet stream -- in fact the final
paragraph of the manuscript makes this explicit.  I believe that the
manuscript would be much more interesting and acceptable if the
authors were able to include material on scalar mixing/heat transfer,
otherwise the motivation is insufficient to justify publication.
There does not seem to be much novelty in the flow physics, other than
the interaction with sidewall boundary layers and possibly also those
from the upstream splitter.

If the authors consider submitting a new version then they may also
wish to take into account the points below.

MAJOR POINTS

1. The title and abstract need to mention the presence of the splitter
   plate. Also, in the abstract, the blockage ratio and oscillation
   amplitude should appear.  

2. We need to be told the inlet velocity profile.

3. S Mittal and co-workers have published numerical work on low-Re 2D
   flows around vibrating cylinders with significant blockage (in JFM
   and JFS at least) and this should be addressed in the
   introduction/literature review.

4. A related point is that while significant space in the introduction
   is given to experimental studies of flows around oscillating
   cylinders, only perfunctory treatment is given to the significant
   body of numerical work on these flows.

5. I was surprised to see the statement on page 11, end of para 2 that
   the high blockage ratio here induces "completely different physics"
   compared to the unconfined case, as the results are not so
   different in nature to those for unconfined flows.  Likewise I do
   not agree with the statement in the subsequent paragraph that "the
   downstream vortex pattern does not exhibit Karman Vortex street" --
   to me, the flow does not look too unlike comparable-Re unconfined
   flows, other than for interaction with the sidewall boundary
   layers.

MINOR POINTS

1. page 4, para 3. The review of forced oscillation results here does
   not bring out the observed rapid change of phase of vortex shedding
   in the midst of the primary synchronization regime.  Maybe this is
   what is meant by the reference to a "change of sign" of shed
   vortices, which seems unlikely.

2. The writing style employed often omits definite articles such as
   "a" and "the".

3. While frequency spectra here do establish a lack of periodicity
   outside lockin, they do not have good discrimination in general and
   a phase-plane type plot indicating the presence or otherwise of a
   limit cycle is a better tool.  (In fact a visual examination of the
   flows shown in figures 3, 7 & 9 seems sufficient to determine which
   are locked and which are not.)




