TITLE:        Flow past an oscillating circular cylinder in a channel
              with a splitter plate
              
AUTHORS:      Celik, Akdag, Gunes & Beskok

SUBMITTED TO: Phys Fluids

REVIEW:	      Second

I am glad to see the authors have made a revision and the manuscript
would now be acceptable for publication subject to a few more minor
alterations.

1. The title should be made still more specific as it is possible to
   have a splitter plate either upstream or downstream of the
   cylinder, with significantly different effect. From the point of
   view of someone doing a literature search it would be important to
   have this information in the title. So I suggest the title could
   read: "Flow past an oscillating circular cylinder in a channel with
   an upstream splitter plate".

2. On page 17 the authors present information as to the sensitivity of
   the results on the upstream location of the splitter
   plate. However, it would have been better yet to compare a case
   with the splitter plate removed altogether, so I suggest this be
   added as another panel in Figure 12.

3. There are still a number of minor problems of English
   expression. As just one example, the first sentence of the Abstract
   should read "Transversely oscillating a circular cylinder in a
   confined channel flow has the potential to promote mixing and heat
   transfer at moderate Reynolds numbers".

4. Page 17, line 3. "Contrary to the expectation, the sum of the
   viscous and pressure components of the lift force is not equal to
   Cl in some cases".  Surely the sum of the pressure and viscous
   components of lift force is instantaneously equal to the total
   lift. I think the authors may have meant to say that the sum of the
   peak viscous and pressure lift components does not equal the
   maximum (owing to a difference in phasing). In which case this
   seems obvious and not at all "contrary to expectation". Please
   reconsider, reword, or better explain the point.

5. Page 9, para 2. "Drichlet" -> "Dirichlet. 
