TITLE:        Characteristics of the flow over a rotationally
              oscillating cylinder at low Reynolds numbers

AUTHORS:      Sungho Choi and Haecheon Choi and Sangmo Kang

SUBMITTED TO: Physics of Fluids

REVIEW:	      First


SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

This is a numerical simulation study of some of the phenomena of flow
past a rotationally oscillating circular cylinder at Re=110.  Interest
in the area stems mainly from two seminal papers by Taneda (1978) and
Tokumaru and Dimotakis (1991); particularly as in the latter paper it
was shown that the time-mean drag of the cylinder could be
substantially altered by the influence of rotation.  It is quite well
established that, like the case for a cylinder with forced cross-flow
oscillation, there in an A'rnold tongue of frequency synchronization
when the oscillation frequency is close to the vortex shedding
frequency for the fixed cylinder.  The range of entrainment
frequencies grows as the rotational oscillation amplitude (or peak
cylinder surface speed) rises.

SUMMARY
-------

The manuscript does not cover a substantial amount of new material,
and as such is of marginal interest. Contrary to the claims made by
the authors that "only a few studies have been performed on flow past
a rotationally oscillating circular cylinder", I would say there have
been quite a few, particularly since the work of Tokumaru and
Dimotakis.

Indeed there have already been five published numerical studies that I
know of, of which the authors reference only three; two missing are
those of Lu & Sato (J Fluids & Structures vol 10, 1996, pp. 829--849)
and Chou (Computers & Fluids vol 26, 1997, pp. 755--774).  Also
contrary to the claims of the authors, some of these studies have
employed quite high rotational oscillation speeds, comparable to, or
higher than, those studied here.  For example, my calculations put the
peak rotational speed Omega examined by Lu & Sato (1996) at
approximately 3, that of Chou (1997) at approximately 9, that of Baek
& Sung (1998) at approximately 1.3 (not 0.05 as stated; that value
applied only to their paper of 2000), and of Mafouz and Badr (2000) at
approximately 2.  The maximum value for the studies in the present
manuscript is 2.5.  Of course, the nominal Reynolds numbers for all
these numerical studies are somewhat different, although they are all
quite low (say of order 1000 maximum), and all are of two-dimensional
flows.  At least, at Re=110, here, we can be fairly confident that the
corresponding real flows would be two-dimensional as well.  On the
other hand, some of the results observed in physical experiments
(T&D's Re=15,000) are not reproduced by the simulations, and we can't
really be sure if that results from a large disparity in Reynolds
numbers, lack of wake three-dimensionality, or other factors.

As far as I can see there are two main things that would differentiate
the present work from the previous publications.  The first is that
the authors seek to explain the modulation that occurs in e.g. lift
and drag signals just outside the lock-on or frequency synchronization
range in terms of physical events (vortex mergings).  This is perhaps
not unexpected, but as far as I am aware no other paper treats this
facet in detail.  I feel the authors' treatment here is not detailed
enough; for example, the frequency ranges over which the modulation
occurs are not represented on figures 3 and 14.  We are not sure if
the results presented, and the mergings which are reported, reach an
asymptotic repetitive state.  If, as the authors suggest, the
modulation frequencies can be expressed as integer combinations of the
fixed cylinder vortex shedding frequency and the forcing (oscillation)
frequency, a cross-plot of lift and drag timeseries should form a
(perhaps complicated) limit cycle.  Even if ths is not exactly true
(i.e. the process is quasiperiodic or weakly chaotic), it would still
help for example to show the correspondence between the vorticity
contour plots shown in figures 9--12 and say lift force timeseries.
Also, is there any trend in the integer values n and m with Stf or
Omega?

The other main avenue by which this manuscript could be differentiated
from the previous papers is in the systematic investigation of the
Stf/Omega control space near primary lock-on.  Unfortunately I again
feel the level of detail in the treatment leaves something to be
desired; the relative sparseness of the points in figures 3 and 14 is
notable (although from figure 13 it would appear that more
closely-spaced runs may have been performed).  Ideally there would be
a dense enough coverage of the lock-on range at least to provide a
contour plot of lift and drag coefficients, but that is asking a lot.

OTHER ISSUES
------------


