TITLE:        Numerical tools for the stability analysis of 2D flows.
	      Application to the two and four-sided lid driven cavity

AUTHORS:      Cadous Guevel & Girault

SUBMITTED TO: Fluid Dyn Res

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

Application of two separate methods previously published by the same
authors (in various combinations, and with others) to the 2D/2C
stability analysis of incompressible flows in the square cavity driven
by two or four surfaces.

RECOMMENDATION

The basic issue I have with this paper is that as far as I can see the
methodology, while it claims to be a "coupling" of two previously
published methods, one for steady, the other for Hopf bifurcations, in
fact seems to present tandem application of these two methods (one to
establish steady bifurcation branches, the other to investigate for
Hopf bifurcations along these branches). The basic underlying ideas
for these methods are not new (see e.g. Kuznetsov's text) although
implementation and use takes much care. I don't believe that this
application on its own provides sufficient motivation for
publication. The application to the two cavity flows (previously
examined elsewhere for fundamental bifurcations) is also not
particularly compelling, and in the case of the two-sided cavity's
Hopf bifurcations (the only Hopfs that occur in the parameter space
studied), only seems to be able to converge on the first
(Re_c=2922). Virtually no space is devoted to descriptions of flows
associated with these Hopf bifurcations.

While it does provide reference information for others interested in
developing numerical methods I believe the manuscript has limited
appeal as it stands and I'm afraid that I cannot recommend
publication. Quite likely, 3D bifurcations will set in before many of
the higher-Re 2D/2C bifurcations outlined here (e.g. if one were to
consider experimental verification). If one removed descriptions of
the numerics (which appear in earlier papers) little of substance
would remain in this manuscript.

OTHER POINTS TO BE ADDRESSED

There are a number of fairly minor grammatical and spelling mistakes,
which is understandable given that I'd expect English is not the
primary language of any author - all these mistakes could be easily
remedied.

Why were the last two full-page figures included without captions (or
as far as I could tell, cross-referencing)? They seem to be early
versions of Figure 4.

