TITLE:        Wake states and response branches of forced and
	      freely oscillating cylinders

AUTHORS:      Carberry, Govardhan, Sheridan, Rockwell & Williamson

SUBMITTED TO: European J Mechanics B/Fluids

REVIEW:	      First

This manuscript presents comparisons of wake states for circular
cylinders in forced oscillation and in vortex-induced vibration, at
Reynolds numbers well below the drag crisis. Obviously the comparisons
are of interest as one would hope that information sufficient to
predict VIV amplitudes could be extracted from experiments conducted
with forced oscillation. The forced motion and VIV experiments were
each conducted at different experimental facilities. The motions in
each case were constrained to be cross-flow only. We are not told here
exactly what the aspect ratios and end conditions of the cylinders
were, although no doubt this information can be found in the
references.

The main outcome is that while there are many observable similarities
between the various (and variously named) wake modes across the two
sets of results, one of the key parameters (the energy transferred to
the cylinder each motion cycle) differs in sign between the two sets
of experiments, for some of the modes.

The material is interesting, sufficiently to justify publication,
however I believe there are a few points which the authors could
address in a revision.

1. The main difficulty with the comparsion which the manuscript seeks
to address is that the two sets of experiments do not seem to have
been designed to match exactly any parameter: the Reynolds numbers are
apparently always different when the motion amplitudes and frequencies
could be regarded as comparable. For example, in the second-last
paragraph, we are told that at motion amplitudes of 0.6 diameter, the
forced oscillations and VIVs for a range of similar reduced
frequencies give different signs of energy transfer when the forced
oscillations are at Re=2300, while the VIVs are at Re=3700. The
authors state that these are "similar" Reynolds numbers. On what
basis? The numerical values differ by a factor of almost two.

2. It would seem quite likely that the main points of difference could
stem from the apparently uncoordinated design of the two
experiments. Perhaps it would be better (if this is in fact true) to
just state this (although perhaps in other words!) in the
Introduction, as I do not believe that this would detract from the
interest of the work. The authors state that in the Conclusions that
"further work" is needed to reconcile the difference in sign of energy
transfer. Surely that "further work" would in large part consist in
matching all the dimensionless parameters more closely. Why not say as
much?
