TITLE:        Structure and stability of the finite-area Karman street

AUTHORS:      Luzzatto-Fegiz and Williamson

SUBMITTED TO: Phys Fluids

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

The manuscript deals using a variational-based method to compute
inviscid vortex street shapes, and especially novel ones that are
obtained by symmetry breaking.

RECOMMENDATION

This is a really interesting manuscript, and well written. I think it
could become one of the classics in the area. Definitely I would like
to recommend this work should be published in Phys Fluids, although I
feel the authors need first to clarify for the editor the relationship
between reference 32, under review at JFM, and the present manuscript.

MAJOR POINTS TO BE ADDRESSED

1. Section II.B. My difficulty with this section is that the concept
of an IVI or "imperfect velocity impulse" diagram (as in the title of
the section) is never explained (or in fact directly defined) in the
present manuscript.  As it transpires, the precise type of diagram
used here (a dE/dL vs L diagram) is just briefly said to be (last
para, column 1, page 5) "isomorphic" to a velocity-impulse diagram (or
since as much is not directly said, that is the inference to be
made). We need more explanation in the present manuscript regarding
IVI diagrams and why dE/dL and L here replace impulse and velocity on
such a diagram. If Fig 4 is (or is related to) an IVI diagram, this
should be stated in its caption.

2. Is the method also applicable to non-standard vortex streets
(e.g. the 2P street)? I feel sure the authors would have considered
this and suggest they make some comment, at least about the
applicability of the method to these flows. If it comes to that,
perhaps the authors should also define precisely what they mean by a
Karman vortex street as opposed to other types.

3. More generally, while this is a quite theoretical paper, I ask that
the authors make some attempt to link the outcomes to observations
either experimental or computations: have any of the "novel" types of
streets (as seen e.g. in Fig 9) previously been found?

OTHER POINTS TO BE ADDRESSED

4. I believe the analysis is specific to inviscid flows and this
should be stated, preferably in the title, the abstract, or early in
the introduction. 

5. Likewise, I believe (see eqn 7) the "large-area" vortices
considered have uniform vorticity within them, and this could be
stated early in the abstract. I imagine the method could perhaps be
generalised to problems for which there were arrays of symmetrically
related but non-uniform vorticity; could the authors comment on this?

6. I suggest that the definitions of (energy and) impulse in a
rotational flow be briefly reviewed in the introduction, with
reference to the standard texts (e.g. Batchelor or Saffman). I realise
they are later here introduced for a periodic array by eqs (2) and
(3).

7. Sect II.A, para 2, sentence 2. How can scalar E have a "geometry"?
Please modify this statement.

8. Sect II.B, para 1, last sentence. How does an eigenmode that
preserves energy "enable instability"? Isn't it marginally stable?

9. Sect II.B, para 2, last sentence: typo.

10. Sect II.B, eqn (1). Can the authors briefly ascribe some physical
significance to the quantity H?

11. Sect II.B, page 5, last para, last sentence. We have by now a few
times been referred to "issues" noted or described "above". Please
refer the reader to II.A.

12. Sect II.B, page 6, last para. Can the numerics actually cope with
"point vortices" or are these approximated by small round patches of
uniform vorticity? How does one assign the circulation of these
perturbations?

13. Sect III, last para. Are the "normal modes" mentioned here exactly the
shape functions in eqn (8)? Then please say so.
