TITLE:        Secondary instabilities in the flow around two circular
	      cylinders in tandem
              
AUTHORS:      Carmo BS, Menehini JR, Sherwin SJ

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluid Mechanics

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

3D Floquet analysis of 2D low-Re flow past two cylinders in tandem
arrangement.  Because the arrangement is tandem, the wakes have
exactly the same spatio-temporal symmetries as a single circular
cylinder wake and the symmetry breakings are subject to the same
rules.

RECOMMENDATION

This is a fine piece of original work and I recommend it be accepted
after revision, although there are quite a number of points of detail
that need to be cleared , as outlined below.

POINTS

1. The introduction would be aided by a more thorough review of the
previous work and in particular the study of primary instabilities
made by Mizushima & Suehiro (2005). A sketch that attempted to map the
observed primary 2D instabilities by at least cylinder spacing would
serve the introduction well. Since Mizushima & Suehiro did not carry
out 3D analysis, is it still possible that in some cases 3D (steady,
or unsteady) modes provide the primary instabilities?

2. It needs to be pointed out that an analysis of the secondary
instabilities is more complicated than in the case of an isolated
cylinder since there are here two control parameters, Reynolds number
and cylinder spacing.  Hence there is some difficulty in just taking
example modes/cylinder spacings and varying the Reynolds number to
produce a secondary state: it is possible that at a higher Reynolds
number still a different mode may bifurcate first from the basic
state.

3. Do the base flows all in fact have the Z2xO(2) spatio-temporal
symmetry of the isolated circular cylinder wake? If so, all the
Floquet modes defined on the full period should either bifurcate along
the real axis, or as complex-conjugate pairs, without a subharmonic
mode, as follows from the work of Swift & Wiesenfeld Phys Rev Let 52
(1984) and the analyses presented by Marques Lopez & Blackburn,
Physica D 189 (2004) and Blackburn Marques Lopez JFM 522 (2005). As
pointed out in the latter, there is nothing to tie the symmetries of
Floquet modes to any particular wavelength or physical mechanism, as
the findings here support.  In this problem there should generically
be no such thing as "mode C" introduced at the top of page 30 (which
refers to subharmonic modes), but instead, in the nomenclature of
Blackburn, Marques, Lopez, "mode QP", a quasiperiodic mode.  We are
told that the least-stable modes always have real Floquet
multipliers. What about the sub-dominant modes?

4. In the section on analytical techniques the vorticity form of the
 LNS are given.  Why, since all the computations are in primitive
 variables.  It seems sufficient to say that vorticity is obtained by
 post-processing Floquet modes or base flows as required.

5. More information is needed concerning Floquet analysis methodology,
and its convergence - this is treated in insufficient depth. There
should be an explicit statement that the Floquet modes are
T-periodic. I suggest a re-organization to more directly address the
numerical as opposed to analytical techniques, and to give convergence
properties. In instances where we are shown the Floquet modes through
the cycle, are they obtained as new solutions, or obtained through
evolution of the linearised Navier-Stokes equation from some initial
mode?  Was it established that 32 snapshots of the base flow provide
sufficiently accurate reconstruction in all cases?

6. Instead of a separate section where we are shown the base flows, a
better organization from the reader's point of view could be to group
examples of the relevant base flow with each of the studies of
secondary instability. Then the information that is presently in this
section regarding convergence could be moved in with the material
suggested above regarding numerical methods.

7. I liked the argument about the physics underlying the symmetry of
the SG mode with regard to vorticity transport and stretching,
although I note that the vorticity of the Floquet modes shown in
Figure 11 do not seem to have the required spatio-temporal symmetries
across half-period intervals (e.g. the 5T/8 results do not mirror the
T/8 results).  A couple of other related points: first, it should be
noted that the streamlines are shown in a fixed frame of reference and
hence the hyperbolic features can disappear (as is observed) - if
streamlines were drawn in a frame of reference that moved with these
points, they would probably persist. Secondl, I believe that it is the
base flow field that has hyperbolic points but the instability
mechanism is related to vortex stretching - "hyperbolic instability"
seems a misnomer (page 22).

8. Some of the arguments made elsewhere regarding physical mechanisms
of other modes are less convincing. For example in secton 5.2.3 it is
suggested that "the interaction of shear layers does not play a role
in the initiation of" mode T2, and this statement is supported through
the finding that the addition of a short free-slip splitter plate (not
a "symmetry segment" surely, since no symmetry is thereby enforced) in
the near wake of the downstream cylinder has little effect on Floquet
multipliers. I would be very surprised if the interaction of shear
layers *did not* play a major role here, and indeed for all other
cases - but perhaps not through convection in the section of wake were
the geometry is modified. Perhaps more likely is just that vertical
convection rates are small in this region.

9. \lambda_2 criterion is introduced in the caption of figure 25
without reference or explanation.

10. The term "formation region" is introduced without explanation. In
 this flow it seems possible to have two formation regions at the
 higher spacings.

11. Para 1, page 51, it is stated that there are "no siginificant
 differences" between the results of this section and for the isolated
 cylinder "to within 1% tolerance". On which measures was this
 tolerance obtained? Please be more precise.

12. The argument about the nonlinear analysis of bifurcations needs
 more care in a number of places. Are the linear results (e.g. figures
 9, 14, 23) obtained from Floquet analysis or by curve fitting at low
 amplitudes?  The results presented in figure 14 for one case are
 rather confusing since the bifucation seems both subcrtical
 (instability intially grows faster than linear) and supercritical
 (3rd-order Landau is sufficient). I suggest that the authors revisit
 this computation, perhaps at Re closer to critical. Or back it up by
 examining the 3D energy in the saturated state as a function of Re as
 is done for another case in Figure 31. The supporting isosurfaces in
 figure 15 suggest both the Floquet mode and the DNS could be
 under-resolved at Re=450.

13. The authors seem to have used sigma for both a complex Floquet
 exponent (top of page 8) and its real part only (eq. 2.11).  Please
 unify the treatment.

14. In relation to figure 30b, it should be stated that the reason a
 steady saturated energy value is not obtained is that the resulting
 nonlinear flows are chaotic, as seems evident from the time trace of
 energy and also the contour plots of figure 32b.

15. Braid layer nomenclature page 43 and elsewhere: braid layer seems
to be a term that could be applied to a shear layer in which a
particular type of instability has already produced "braids"
i.e. streamwise vortices, rather than one in which braid instabilites
could be supported.

16. $\beta$, spanwise wavenumber, is dimensionless, no need to use
$\beta D$.

17. Are any of the instability mechanisms/modes/symmetries related to
those found by Ryan et al. for elongated plates?

18. Please add times-sense arrows on the streaklines shown in figure 17.

19. Page 26, sentence 2, add "for the isolated cylinder" to end.

20. For various captions that show instability mode shapes
(e.g. figures 10, 18) please add the name of the mode shown.
