TITLE:        An updated portrait of transition to turbulence in laminar pipe
	      flows with periodic time dependence (a correlation study)

AUTHORS:      Carpinlioglu & Ozahi

SUBMITTED TO: Flow Turb Combust

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

This manuscript seeks to review understanding of the parameters which
characterise transition in time-periodic pipe flows.  A comprehensive
review would certainly be welcome because our understanding of the
state of play in this area is quite poor.  Partly no doubt this is
because characterising the base flows involved requires more
parameters than does Hagen-Poiseuille flow (which only requires
Reynolds number - a dimensionless characterisation of flow speed).  To
dimensionlessly describe ideal time-periodic flow requires two
independent dimensionless parameters (one characterising flow speed,
the other temporal frequency) as well as a dimensionless description
of the volumetric flow temporal waveform.  Quite often the two
fundamental dimensionless groups are taken as a Reynolds number and a
Womersely (Stokes) number, although other choices are possible.  The
two most-studied cases (those with the simplest waveforms) are simple
oscillatory flow (single harmonic, zero mean) and simple pulsatile
flow (single harmonic plus a non-zero mean); more complex cases add
further temporal harmonics, supplied in terms of amplitudes and phases
relative to the fundamental.  (Most if not all experimental studies of
pulsatile flow are directed at simple pulsatile flow only.)  The
nature of transition is further complicated since the periodic flow
may seem to relaminarise over some portion of the cycle, though one
expects, if the cycle of transition is recurrent, that this should
imply that disturbances fall dramatically to an "experimentally
undetectable" level over some portion of the cycle, rather than
disappearing completely.

RECOMMENDATION

I would certainly like to see a comprehensive review made of this
topic area, however it is very clear to me that this manuscript could
not be accepted as it stands. The authors need to more carefully lay
out the number and choices of dimensionless groups, and address the
roles of relative amplitudes of mean and oscillatory components of
simple pulsatile flows. The structure of the manuscript as well as
many points of detail also needs revision, as does the construction of
the arguments. I suggest the authors withdraw and completely revise
the manuscript before resubmitting it.

MAJOR POINTS

1. Even for simple pulsatile flows there are three independent
dimensionless groups (say, a Reynolds number, a Womersley number, and
a ratio of peak to mean flow speed), whereas initially (say on figs 2a
and 2b) the authors seem to seek to describe the available results for
pulsatile flow only in terms of two (Reynolds and Womersley
number). The authors do seem to recognise this point (e.g. eq 5c) but
do not explain the idea very well, or to take it into full account
when reviewing the results.  This could explain for example why some
pulsatile flow experiments suggest that addition of oscillation is
stabilizing, while others suggest it is destabilizing (see e.g. figure
2b, or the attribution of different effects of oscillation to
different ranges of Womersley number in the Abstract and elsewhere).
Following the argument leading to eq. (5c) one could e.g. expect on
fig. 2b to see different critical curves for various values of
Re_os. Similar considerations apply to figs 3-5.

2. The description and use of some parameters is confusing.  Re_m seems
to characterise a time-varying (but area-averaged) flow speed in some
places (say in eq. 1), but a specific (e.g. maximum) value/parameter
in others (e.g. figs 3 and 4).  The same confusion arises in restating
eq. (5c) as eq. (5d), since the authors now seem to imply that Re_ta
and Re_m are the same.  This needs to be resolved.

3. Quite a number of statements are made by the authors without adequate
justification or direct reference to specific literature, as occurs
for example throughout the opening paragraph of section 2.2.

4. The structure of the manuscript needs careful attention and some
revision.  In the Abstract, many symbols are used without prior
definition.  Why are "Basic definitions and terminology", Subsection
2.1, included within "Results and discussion", Section 2?

5. I could not understand the purpose in this manuscript of section
2.4. Please delete it.

OTHER POINTS TO BE ADDRESSED

6. The use of English is not very good and indeed some sentences do not
make sense. At times it is far too difficult to understand or follow
the argument the authors seek to present.

7. It is surprising that no reference has been made to the theoretical
stability analysis results of Yang & Yih, JFM vol 82 (1977), or of
Fedele et al., Eur J Mech B vol 24 (2005).

8. In Fourier expansions of waveforms (e.g. eq. 1) the largest
harmonic is said to be 6, rather than, say, N (or infinity). Why?

9. Are the "data points" on figs 3-5 all from experiments? If so they
should be labelled so we can track them back to the original
papers. (And I wondered if the very small values of deviations from
these lines as quoted e.g. on page 8 just reflected the small number
of data used to fit them.)  Otherwise please just use lines (perhaps
of two types in figure 5b.)  And why not combine figs 3a+4a, 3b+4b and
5a+5b?

10. Why is the quotation from Reynolds (1883) on page 2 also given a
secondary source (Schlichting 1979)?


