TITLE:        Forces and Wake Patterns of the Downstream Oscillating
              Cylinder by Vortex Shedding, Part 1: Transverse Motion

AUTHORS:      W Chen, A Ren and G Li

SUBMITTED TO: Fluid Dynamics Research

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

The manuscript deals with a 2D ALE-finite element method study of
flows past and forces on the elastically mounted downstream cylinder
in a streamwise-aligned pair, where the upstream cylinder is rigidly
mounted. The Reynolds number is fixed at 200, downstream distance at
5D mass ratio at 10, and reduced damping at 0.01. 

MAIN POINTS
-----------

1. There are many problems with English expression and grammar. The
authors' meaning is sometimes unclear, and the manuscript is
consequently not easy to read and comprehend. Sentences are often
over-long. The main results section is highly descriptive, and the
authors' difficulties with English lessen the impact of their
work. The problems are sufficient cause to reject the manuscript as it
stands, and this aspect requires very careful attention in any
subsequent revision. (Just as an associated minor point: the authors
repeatedly use the terms "in-of-phase" and "out-of-phase"; the first
of these should be "in-phase" throughout the text.)

2. Proof of numerical convergence of the simulations needs to be
better established. In table 1, we are presented with comparisons of
force ratios from the present work with those from two other numerical
studies with tandem cylinder arrangments (with both cylinders held
fixed). It is unclear what Reynolds numbers were used in the other two
works. All the table really does is to indicate that the three
different simulations do not agree with one another very well. What
would be far more reassuring is to see how these ratios (or some other
measures) converge with the present numerics as the spatial and
temporal resolutions are increased.

3. Turning to the Results section (3), some difficulty in
interpretation derives from the fact that none of the results seems to
be perfectly time-periodic. Even for regimes I & IV, which are
apparently almost periodic (Figs 5 & 6), the vorticity contours for
times nominally one period apart are not identical (e.g. times i & v
in Fig 6), and contours half a period apart are not mirror images
(e.g. times i & iii in Fig 6). Probably, for regimes I & IV, the
results would be more closely periodic if the simulations were run for
longer, and the authors should consider doing this for a revision. The
flow patterns in Fig 6 (a) are described as being of 2P type, but I
had difficulty in seeing this. Perhaps the authors could label exactly
which "vortices" were shed in each motion period. Contours in Fig 5(b)
are also described as being of 2P type, but it looks more like 2S with
some long stretched shear layers wrapping around the main vortices
(this is probably in fact the way 2P modes get formed) -- more careful
interpretation and explanation is required.

4. In considering regimes II & III, this lack of periodicity (now more
fundamental -- these flows probably really are chaotic in the long
run) becomes even more problematic. In fact, one can see 2P, 2S-type
events (and more complicated ones still) at different wake locations
and at different times, and possibly it is sensible to say little more
than this. I believe the authors were trying to draw a more definite
connection between the observed phase angle and shedding try in these
regimes, but didn't understand exactly what. Unless one takes care to
provide some conditional ensemble averages of the flow patterns at
different parts of the long-period fluctuations, interpretation is
bound to be difficult.

5. In section 3.2, page 16, the authors talk about streamlines, but do
not show any in their figures: they try to back up their discussion
here using vorticity contours, but very likely the relationship
between the contours and instantaneous steamlines is quite
complex. Either they should also show us the streamlines, or modify or
remove altogether this part of the text.

MINOR POINTS
------------

6. Apparently the downstream cylinder is only free to oscillate
cross-flow (that's implicit in the title but maybe not stated
anywhere).

7. Figure 7 is hard to understand. Obviously, given the extended time
period involved, it does not show time series, but we are not told at
how the points in time the various processes (phase angle, lift
coefficient, amplitude) were sampled at were chosen. Why not just show
time series of these quantities (and maybe smoothed trend lines if
appropriate)?

8. How was the phase angle between lift and displacement, so often
mentioned, calculated? If neither signal is periodic, it can be quite
difficult to get a meaningful phase angle. (One means in this case is
through the Hilbert transform.)

9. In Fig 10, we see vorticity at different points in the wake (at one
time instant, perhaps?), but are not told what regions are represented.

10. In Section 3.4, the authors mention parallel and oblique shedding,
but do not explain what they mean by this. Do they mean parallel and
oblique to the span?

11. More generally, I don't believe that the authors have anywhere
mentioned 3D flow effects, and what their influence might be. Even if
in the end it's to say that they don't know, I suggest that the matter
should be addressed.

12. In a few places the flow speed is given as a (dimensionless)
value, whereas it probably should be given units (like D/T).

