TITLE:        The onset of three-dimensional centrifugal global modes
              and their non-linear development in a recirculating
              flow over a flat surface

AUTHORS:      Cherubini, Robinet, De Palma, Alizard

SUBMITTED TO: Phys Fluids

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

3D global stability and DNS analysis of flow over a 2D separation
bubble on a flat plat induced by transpiration on the surface
opposite.  2D-restricted transient growth and global stability for
this flow has already received attention by the same group of authors,
e.g.:

Alizard F, Cherubini S, Robinet J (2009) Sensitivity and optimal
forcing response in separated boundary layer flows, Phys Fluids
21. (This deals with 2D optimal transient growth.)

Cherubini S, Robinet J, De Palma P (2010) The effects of non-normality
and nonlinearity of the Navier–Stokes operator on the dynamics of a
large laminar separation bubble, Phys Fluids 22. (This deals with 2D
global mode dynamics.)

RECOMMENDATION

Do not accept until the authors respond satisfactorily on the
following points:

1. The main issue I can see here is that material on linear analysis
of 3D optimal transient growth appears to be lacking from this
manuscript, even though the present work relies on these results for
initiation of its 3D nonlinear study of transient growth.  For example
there are no figures that present the optimal linear transient growth
initial perturbation flows and their outcomes under linear
evolution. This makes me concerned that such material will appear in
another closely-related publication that more properly should be
combined with the present work. I don't feel I could instruct PF to
accept the manuscript without getting a response from the authors
about this concern; if this material is not to appear elsewhere then
it should be included here.  On the other hand if it is to appear
elsewhere then the editor and referees should be informed so they can
assess if this is reasonable or not (and I believe it isn't, given the
close connection to the nonlinear evolution).

2. While this may seem to conflict with the remark above, in general the
manuscript seems over-long. Some figures such as figure 21 receive
little attention in the text and could be removed without loss.

3. I'm also concerned that in various figures (e.g. the downstream end
of figure 29, figure 31b, figure 35) the solution could be
under-resolved. There are a lot of structures in these images whose
axial length scale is small and possibly of the same order as the
streamwise axial mesh scale.  Can the authors make a quantitative
statement about the degree of mesh independence of these results
(e.g. that they remain the same if the streamwise resolution is
doubled)?

OTHER POINTS TO BE ADDRESSED

4. On page 2: "The transient growth of the disturbances is due to the
non-normality of the differential operator AND MAY BE CONSIDERED
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE SUB-CRITICAL TRANSITION".  As far as I know the
last part of this sentence has not been established in the refereed
literature and so it should either be removed or backed up with a
reference.

5. On page 3, direct adjoint methods were employed by the authors of [27]
and of [9] to perform global transient growth analyses, although only
[27] is cited here. Reference 9 appeared in print before [27], and as
the point being made relates to the introduction of such methods, [9]
should be cited here, as well.

6. At the end of page 8 the M_S mode is a 3D steady mode said to be
similar to that found by ref [39] in 3D separated flow induced by an
adverse pressure gradient. Is it also similar to the steady mode for
the BFS found by ref [5]?  Please comment.

7. The start of para. 2, page 9, starts with "The less stable steady mode
...". Should this not be "The less unstable steady mode ...", or "More
stable steady mode ..."?

8. At the end of page 10, modes are referred to as "highly non-normal"
although the non-normality of the modes has not actually been
established quantitatively. Please modify the statement.

9. On figure 10, page 15, why not run the abscissa from 0 to -0.0005,
also draw an axis line for \omega_i=0, and label the points directly
on the figure as BF1, BF2 and BF3, rather than via the caption.

10. To the end of sentence 1, para. 2, page 15, add " and hence
have smaller separation bubbles" or similar.

11. In relation to figure 11 and associated text, how sensitive are the
outcomes to choice of streamline? Please comment.

12. On page 20 there is mention of a 'flapping phenomenon', but this is
not explained in any way other than by reference to two other
papers. Please briefly explain.

13. Further down page 20, an optimal wavenumber greater than zero was also
recorded in [9] for the BFS flow, and again since this appeared before
the two cited references [26, 27] it should be cited here.

14. Figure 14, page 21. Please plot all curves on one graph - this would
be clearer and would save some space.

15. At the end of page 28, in figure 22a material on oscillatory behaviour
is presented yet we are told it is an artefact of numerical
error. Delete.

16. Page 37. Supply reference for K-type transition scenario.

17. Reference 8 is a repeat of [7]. Likewise [28] is a repeat of
[27]. Reference 26 is to a publication which in fact appeared in 2009,
not one "to appear" in 2008.
