TITLE:        Flow past a circular cylinder in the vicinity of a plane wall
              
AUTHORS:      A Dipankar & TK Sengupta

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluids and Structures

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

The manuscript presents numerical flow visualisation results for 2D
transient flow past a circular cylinder near a flat wall. The inflow
is a Blasius boundary layer of thickness 0.44D. Results are presented
for a single Reynolds number, Re=1200 (the same as used in experiments
by Price et al. 2002), based on the free-stream flow speed and
cylinder diameter, but for two gap/diameter (G/D) ratios, 0.5 and
1.5. Flow visualisation is presented in terms of the stream function
and vorticity contours. The flow visualisation is supplemented by
plots of contours of the forcing terms in a Poisson equation for the
perturbation total pressure, computed on a quasi-instantaneous
basis.

The manuscript could appear in JFS, subject to some revisions, as
outlined below.

COMMENTS

1. We are told in the abstract that the computed results are compared
to the previous experimental flow visualisation by Price et al., but
as far as this reviewer can see the "comparison" amounts to a few
broadly descriptive sentences in section 3. I suggest that it might be
useful to provide some images from their flow visualisation, if they
can be obtained with the authors' and publisher's (Elsevier)
permission, and to give more detailed comparision. Alternatively the
claims to "comparison" should be weakened.

2. This is a numerical study of unsteady flows, but no results are
presented to indicate the likely temporal and spatial resolution
dependence of the computed results. Since the Reynolds number claimed
is comparatively high, some tabulated studies of mesh-resolution and
time-increment dependence of computed results (say of time-average
force coefficients and Strouhal numbers) need to be included.

3. At the Reynolds number of 1200, the real flow will surely be 3D, a
fact that the authors do not see fit to mention -- they certainly
should do so. Do the experimental results provide some basis for some
description of the likely 3D behaviour?

4. I am unfamiliar with the use of the forcing for the laplacian of
the perturbation/disturbance total pressure as a measure of
"disturbance energy". I feel that at least a brief rationale for why
this could be appropriate needs to be included.

5. The authors say that in the present flow there is no steady mean
field from which to compute the perturbation, and instead resort to a
quasi-steady assumption at each instant, meaning that a local
time-increment is assumed to represent the perturbation. Why not just
compute the time-mean field and take perturbations from this?

