TITLE:        A Fourier-spectral element method algorithm for thermal
              convection in rotating axisymmmetric containers

AUTHORS:      A Fournier, H-P Bunge, R Hollerbach and J-P Vilotte

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Computational Physics

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

This paper addresses a P_{N}--P_{N-2} (velocity--pressure) spectral
element--Fourier discretization of the unsteady Navier--Stokes system
with an advected scalar. (For simplicity, I will refer to this below
as the Navier--Stokes problem.) In essence it appears to be an
extension to three spatial dimensions and to the Navier--Stokes system
of a comparable method (that of Gerritsma & Phillips JCP V164) for the
axisymmetric Stokes problem. The authors' contribution is welcome, as
there are presently no publications that adequately address this
continuous--discrete system.

For elements that touch the axis, the authors use quadrature and nodes
in the radial direction that are based on the (0,1) Jacobi polynomials
(the standard spectral element method uses the (0,0) or Legendre
polynomials for the equivalent task). This by now is a fairly standard
approach for the cylindrical coordinate system. Two other works that
are nominally comparable but use equal-order interpolants for velocity
and pressure are those of Tomboulides and Orszag (JFM 416) and
Ghidersa and Dusek (JFM 423). What is not clear (and is made no
clearer by this manuscript) is if the approach works (i.e. provides
spectral convergence) for nonaxisymmmetric Navier--Stokes problems.

MAIN POINTS
-----------

1. While it demonstrates spectral convergence for nonaxisymmetric
Stokes problems, the technique of the paper is not used to demonstrate
spectral convergence for the main topic of interest,
i.e. NAVIER--Stokes problems. (In section 8.2, the authors do treat a
nonaxisymmetric Navier--Stokes type problem as an example, but do not
show spectral convergence for it.) To my knowledge, not a single paper
or method has yet appeared that *demonstrates* this convergence for
this system. In my experience, the nonlinear terms (which appear in
forcing for the pressure, or pressure increment, Poisson equation) can
produce terms that cause problems at the axis for the axisymmetric
Fourier mode. The terms (which arise from nonlinear products of the
mode-1 cross-axial flow) are finite at the axis. If a radial weighting
is put into the quadrature, these terms become singular.

What I suggest the authors must do as a minimum to make the paper
acceptable is to demonstrate that their method produces spectral
convergence for a nonaxisymmetric Navier--Stokes flow that has flow
crossing the axis. A suitable test case can be made from the available
planar analytical solutions to the Navier-Stokes equations (these
become 3D when expressed in cylindrical coordinates). Note that flow
must cross the axis of the coordinate system for a valid test.

2. If the authors can successfully address the above point, then I
also believe that the manuscript is much too long; it could be made
half to two-thirds the current length without sacrificing any useful
information.

MINOR POINTS
------------

3. The authors refer to a central publication by Bernardi et al. As
represented by their citation, I couldn't find the work. It looks as
though it has since been published by Springer. This should be
updated.

4. The authors persistently refer to the "weighted
Gauss--Lobatto--Legendre" quadrature, expansion basis, etc, whereas
more correctly the generating basis is the set of (0,1) Jacobi
polynomials. (For example, the details of this basis set is given in
one of the appendices of the book "Spectral/hp element methods for
CFD", by Sherwin and Karniadakis, to which the authors could refer.)

5. I do not believe that the scaling in equations (42--44) can in fact
be found through references given in the paper by Tomboulides and Orszag. I
think it comes indirectly from Batchelor and Gill (JFM 14), and would
like to see the authors clear this up.


