TITLE:		Circular cylinder wake vortex synchronization control with
		synthetic jet positioned at back stagnation point
              
AUTHORS:	Feng, LH and Wang JJ

SUBMITTED TO: 	J Fluid Mech

REVIEW:       	Second

Generally the manuscript is better now for its revision.  I agree that
this manuscript is substantially different to the earlier Chinese
publication. However there are still some points to be addressed:

1. The authors have not responded satisfactorily to point 6 of my
previous review.  The information supplied regarding the normalization
of power spectral density (see para 2, section 4) is still
unsatisfactory and needs revision. Since it is unclear what
normalisation has been applied in the FFT it is unclear what the
numerical values supplied on the ordinates of figures 3b, 4b, 5,
represent.  One typical way of normalising such spectra is that the
integral with respect to dimensionless frequency corresponds to the
variance of the original signal, made dimensionless in suitable
fashion. Another possibility (which does not allow comparison of the
relative energy between different spectra, as wold be useful for
example in figure 5) is simply to normalize the spectral density by
its peak value - this at least allows one to readily see the frequency
content. The authors need to non-dimensionalize the ordinates of these
plots using a method where the significance of the numerical values is
clear. It is not good enough simply to label the axes as "Power
spectrum".

2. The authors have also not responded satisfactorily to point 12 of my
previous review. The authors state in the manuscript at the end of
section 2.3, (and in their response to my previous review) that the
relative error in the vorticity (as deduced via second-order finite
differencing, see their response to the previous review) is liable to
be less than 1% if the maximum relative error in velocity is no more
than 1% (I presume this error is actually relative to the maximum
velocity, although the authors' meaning is unclear).  Elementary
statistical analysis of experimental error suggests that the error in
the velocity difference will be of order 1.5% if the two velocity
estimates have uncorrelated errors, and also there will be errors of
estimation of position, so the error in vorticity estimate is liable
to be larger again (and the local relative error in vorticity could be
quite sizable). The authors need to provide more thorough
justification, and more careful description, of their estimates of
error in velocity and vorticity data.

I suggest the authors review some standard texts on random data
analysis, for example Bendat & Piersol's "Random Data: Analysis &
Measurement Procedures" when preparing revisions in response to the
above two points.

3. More minor: the caption to table 2 needs to provide more information. 
