TITLE:		Circular cylinder wake vortex synchronization control with
		synthetic jet positioned at back stagnation point
              
AUTHORS:	Feng, LH and Wang JJ

SUBMITTED TO: 	J Fluid Mech

REVIEW:       	First

The manuscript describes the application of a frequency-controlled 2D
synthetic jet to influence vortex shedding from a circular cylinder.
I believe the information is novel and interesting enough to justify
publication, subject to the authors adequately responding on the
points below.

1.  Prior publication.  It seems likely that the listed publication by
Feng, Wang & Xu (2008) could present much the same information as the
present manuscript, but in Chinese. It is up to JFM editorial staff to
decide how to deal with this issue on the basis of journal policy,
after perhaps reviewing a copy of the original publication.

2.  Efficiency/power consumption.  The authors claim, e.g. in the
abstract, and at the bottom of page 5, that synthetic jet
perturbations of the present kind provide "an efficient" means of drag
reduction (perhaps they meant to say "an effective").  However, no
attempt at all is made to assess efficiency, which for example could
be the amount of energy saved by drag reduction compared to that
consumed in control.  This is surprising since synthetic jet power
consumption was monitored (apparently with very poor precision, see
table 2).  The impact of the work would be substantially increased if
some numerical estimates of control efficiency could be supplied.
This may mean that more precise estimates of power consumption are
required but these could in principle be quickly obtained, without
re-running the rest of the experiment.

3.  3D/spanwise extent of forcing and its effect.  The authors never
in any substantive way address the issue that the length of the jet
slot is only 1.67D, so that there are likely to have been substantial
3D effects, whereas all the information provided is 2D at most.
Ideally we would be given some information that allows assessment of
spanwise dependence of the results (which presumably varies in the
streamwise direction).  Failing this, the authors need to discuss the
issue to a reasonable extent.

4.  The information regarding Reynolds stresses in quadrants I-IV in
section 6 could be deleted without loss.  It is fairly obvious that
any isolated coherent vortex structure will produce the distributions
of Reynolds stresses given in figure 10.  Therefore, the degree to
which these distributions may not be obtained just reflects lack of
structural coherence of phase-averaged vorticity distributions.

5.  Table 1 could be deleted without significant loss. Likewise Table 4.

6.  Units & normalisation.  The abscissae of figures 3a, 4a should be
given in dimensionless form.  The normalisation of "power spectrum"
ordinates for figures 3b, 4b, 5 needs to be detailed.

7.  Filtering and time delay. No detail is supplied as to how the
filtering used to obtain phase information for the unforced case
(figure 2) is carried out. Presumably the filtering is acausal and
does not induce a time delay, but this may not be the case. Please
supply more detail.

8.  Dimensionless stroke length of the synthetic jet (eq 2.2) should
be interpreted as a ratio of readily comprehended physical quantities
for the reader -- e.g. the maximum distance that a rigid extrusion
representing the jet flux would travel, normalised by half the slot
width.  Is an alternative interpretation that the value employed
represents 99.5/30D correct?

9.  The frequency (and dimensionless frequency) of vortex shedding in
the unforced case should be introduced earlier, for example in the
caption for table 3. Please also give the rationale for the choice of
the frequencies used, and also why are they not integer multiples of
the unforced frequency.

10. I_1 and I_2 should be introduced in-line in equation (3.16).

11. Figure 5 is difficult to interpret: spectral peaks (especially in
figure 5a) are hard to distinguish, as are their numeric labels.  The
use of logarithmic ordinates might help with the first issue.

12. On page 10 we are told that the PIV technique delivers a maximum
relative error "no more than 1%".  But 1% of what?  A local or global
mean value?  And presumably this is for velocity component data --
what is the likely error on vorticity estimates?

13. Contour levels for figures 6 & 7: are these not $\pm 1$ but rather
in increments of 1?  Likewise for figures 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 21.

14. The manuscript is easy to follow, but there are numerous small
irregularities of English usage and spelling errors, which I do not
propose to list.  While most of these would be remedied by editorial
attention at the proof stage, the authors should very carefully review
the manuscript to reduce editorial workload (and inevitable delay) as
much as possible.
