TITLE:        Large-Scale Simulation of the Human Arterial Tree
              
AUTHORS:      Grinberg, Anor, Madsen, Yahkot, Karniadakis

SUBMITTED TO: Clinical and Experimental Pharmacology and Physiology

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

This paper reviews both past work and what is needed in future for
large-scale (i.e. resource-intensive) computer simulations of blood
flow in the human vasculature. The material does not match the stated
aims of the journal in that it does not deal with
experimental/clinical pharmacology or physiology.

OVERALL ASSESSMENT

Strengths: the material is interesting and does give an idea of what
is currently possible with CFD applications in this area, and also of
the very great increases in resources and modelling veracity that will
be required to achieve the stated aims.

Weaknesses: The low level of detail given makes it difficult to assess
how useful the reviewed (and proposed) work is likely to be within the
applications area of the likely readership. The authors seem somewhat
selective in their citations and e.g. make no mention of CFD
investigations of the human arterial tree by Hughes. There is an
unacceptable number of spelling errors and also errors of
cross-referencing.

RECOMMENDATION

Subject to editorial approval of the material for this journal I
recommend that the manuscript could be accepted after the citation
base is broadened and the errors in the manuscript are removed.

MINOR POINTS

1.  Title: does "large-scale" refer to large computational resource or to
large vessels?

2. The authors state that "a multiscale simulation ... running on
hundreds of thousands of processors ... will require no more than a
few CPU hours per cardiac cycle ...". The readership should be given
some guidance as to when the authors expect this might be possible.

3. Introduction: "in the high demand for supercomputing" s.b. "in the high
demand such a task places on supercomputing".

4. Para 3, page 4. "present time" used thrice.

5. Page 4, para 4. What is the TearGrid?

6. Page 5, para 2. Section numbers are variously given or omitted,
while there are no section numbers through the remainder of the
manuscript.

7. The manuscript needs careful spell-checking and proof-reading. Here
are some example spelling errors: plague; intergrate; Teargrid;
Windkassel; thesus.

8. In numerical models. A 5cm aorta?


