TITLE: Receptivity of the circular cylinder's first instability

AUTHORS:      F Gianetti and P Luchini

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluid Mechanics

REVIEW:	      Second

I am happy to see the revised version of this manuscript, as I feel
this is an important work and certainly deserves to be published in
JFM. The revised offering is easier to follow (and the reviewer
confesses to a better appreciation of the subject matter than was the
case for the initial version).

To my mind there are still a number of points that need clearing up.
I hope this could be done without too much effort, or much further
delay. Mostly they are about theory and methodology so do not require
more work/computing to be done.

MAIN POINTS

1. Philosophically, I cannot understand how the forcings \bm{f} and m
can appear in the equations (2.6), since these are linearised about
the base flow. Further, I don't really see that they are required,
since the influence of initial conditions should be sufficient to
drive the dynamics of the perturbation. That is, I think one could
drop them from the remainder of the paper and still have the same
outcomes. So, why are they included? (I am happy enough to be
convinced, as long as their philsophical basis is made clear.) And, if
they are necessary, why call them \bm{f} and m, since they are not
directly related to the adjoint velocity and reduced pressure
(respectively \bm{f}+ and m+) -- or are they?

2. I think the authors could take some more care when they introduce
the far-field condition (2.8b). As they state on the next page, this
is only appropriate if in fact the base flow is such that the
perturbation dies away in the far field (especially, at the
outflow). Later on, they have also used outflow boundary conditions at
the RH domain boundary. So why not just use them from the beginning?

3. What of the BCs on pressure, and, perhaps more to the point, its
adjoint? Perhaps they are required on the adjoint pressure field?

4. Is indeed the left eigenvector of the direct problem the same as
the corresponding right eigenvector of the adjoint problem? If so, I
think it would be helpful to state this before describing the
algorithm (4.10-15). Can the authors explain why the iteration
converges to give both eigenvectors (maybe by referring us elsewhere)?
In general, I would like to see more (perhaps, quite a bit more) space
given to description of this algorithm. 

5. Related: I found the statements regarding the vectors \xi and z on
page 22 rather confusing. Why does one need z as well as \xi?

6. In section 6.1 (and this comes back to one of the points in my
first review) I think it would be helpful to some readers to point out
again that the eigenmodes of this problem occur as complex-conjugate
pairs. Also that there is spatial structure of the real and imaginary
parts of the direct modes (visible in the 1987 paper by Jackson for
example) that is related to discrete vortex shedding, and which
disappears on taking the modulus. It would be interesting to see the
structure of the real and imaginary parts of one of the adjoint modes
compared to the corresponding direct mode.

7. This may be exceedingly pedantic, but the receptivity being studied
is that of the wake of a circular cylinder, not the cylinder itself. I
suggest the title of the paper be changed to reflect this.

VERY MINOR POINTS:

a. The pressure in equation 2.1a is the reduced pressure p/rho.

b. As far as I can determine, the term "versors" immediately following
equation (2.4) should be "vectors".

c. The publication date for the book by Ince differs in the text and in
the References - and perhaps neither one is correct?

d. At (3.9), define dS.

e. The integral in the numerator of (8.7) lacks a differential.
