TITLE:		Wave propagation in an elastic tube: a numerical study
              
AUTHORS:	He, F

SUBMITTED TO: 	J Fluid Mech

REVIEW:       	First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

An ALE-finite element method is used to solve incompressible
three-dimensional (but axisymmetric) flow in a three-segment pipe of
fixed length. The central pipe segment is linear elastic, or may be
replaced with a segment with rigid wall. The effect of variation of
elasticity in the central pipe segment on the bulk flow at various
locations is examined, as is the effect of changing fluid density,
viscosity.

RECOMMENDATION

I'm afraid I have to suggest that the manuscript be rejected. The main
reasons being:

1. Inadequate reference to past theoretical and numerical modelling in
the area, particulaly the seminal works for elastic-walled tubes by
Womersley in 1955 and 1957. Another key work not considered by the
author is the 1D numerical modelling of flows in elastic tube networks
presented by Sherwin et al. (2003).

2. A related point is that since the flow and response here is
axisymmetric, the whole problem could be tackled in 2D, or more to the
point, (as in Sherwin et al.) 1D.  The use of full 3D methodology to
tackle the problem considered is not justified.

3. The combination of geometry and flow waveform considered is very
specific and it is difficult to draw results or implications of
general interest. A related weakness is that the outcomes are
presented in phenomenological format without comparsion to relevant
theory or drawing appropriate generalizations. This makes the
manuscript as a whole lacking in general interest.

4. Problem formulation and results are presented in dimensional as
opposed to dimensionless form.

5. The level and mode of treatment of the problem is inappropriate to
the journal - the work could perhaps be considered in a journal that
is more related to CFD.

6. Inadequate attention is given to confirming that the results are
mesh-independent. While we are told that there is a 5% difference in
outcomes between the coarsest and finest meshes employed, this is
quite a substantial difference, and it is still unclear if the fine
mesh was indeed used to obtain the results presented.

7. It seems that while a pulsatile inlet bulk flow was used, the inlet
velocity profile could have been uniform/plug flow - no discussion is
given to the radial structure. Inflow profiles should be the
analytical solution given by Sexl (1930) for pulsatile flow in rigid
tubes, re-presented and generalized to elastic tubes in Womersley
(1955).

References

Sherwin, Franke, Piero & Parker (2003) One-dimensional modelling of a
vascular network in space-time variables, J Eng Math 47:217-250.

Sexl (1930) Z Phys 61:349-362,

Womersley (1955) Method for the calculation of velocity, rate of flow
and viscous drag in arteries when the pressure gradient is known, J
Physiol, 127:553-563.

Womersley (1957) An elastic tube theory of pulse transmission and
oscillatory flow in mammalian arteries, Wright Air Devel Center TR
56-614.




