Imagine that you are the editor of the journal in question. 

Is the area of discourse relevant to the journal?

Is the title clear, informative and accurate?

The Abstract, Introduction, and Conclusion should convey clearly the
importance and interest of the work to a broad audience (though the
concept of "broad" will vary with the journal: it will be different
for Nature, Science, PRL, JFM, ...).

The Abstract should concentrate of giving a precis of the work to be
presented, rather than provide introduction and motivation.

Motivation for the work needs to be clearly established in the
Introduction and from this the reader should be able to anticipate the
course of the investigation, if this is not laid out explictly in the
Introduction.

What is new here? What new results are established? Is the material
new, or does it re-present information already published in archival
form, especially by the same authors? If new in detail, is the
information readily derivable or obvious from prior knowledge or
publications?  Is the material interesting and useful?  It may be new
but not interesting enough to justify publication (e.g. if an existing
technique is applied to a problem that is already well understood; the
combination may be novel but the outcomes are of little interest).  Is
there sufficient new information to justify publication in the form
suggested (for example, is a technical note or letter more appropriate
than a full length article)?

A good manuscript should interpret results within a theoretical
context. Is the treatment too phenomenological or descriptive?

Are prior publications adequately acknowledged and represented? Check
possible overlap or omissions by examining some key references or
material that can be found by online searches.

As much quantitative information as possible should be presented in
dimensionless form, and the normalisation supplied.

Is the sectioning and layout appropriate, and does material appear in
the appropriate sections?

Is the balance of material appropriate? Too much depth is often given
to numerical or experimental methods which are not novel, and for
which the reader could be directed elsewhere.

Results sections should generally concentrate on presenting original
results, while comparison to published results or theory is generally
contained in a discussion section. Generally the present results
should be placed in the context of past results. If there are apparent
discrepancies with past findings these should be addressed.

Focus should be maintained within one paragraph at a time, and as far
as possible not reference forward to material not yet discussed.

All graph axes should be labelled and given numeric tags.  Graphs must
be clear and legible at the size they will appear in print.

References should be presented in the form used by the journal, but in
general it should be possible to find and check any information
referred to using the information supplied.

Lengthy derivations should be relegated to appendices.  Derivations
and numerical values should be correct and internally consistent
through different parts of the paper (e.g. text and captions).

All figures and tables should be discussed in the text. If they are
not, the rule is that they can be omitted without loss.

Is the paper free of grammatical and spelling errors? Is the meaning
of the authors clear, or not?

Is the manuscript an appropriate length, or could it be shortened?

What is missing?
