TITLE:        Control of vortex breakdown in a closed cylinder
              with a rotating lid.
              
AUTHORS:      B Jorgensen, JN Sorensen & N Aubry

SUBMITTED TO: J Fluid Mech

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

The research uses finite-difference axisymmetric numerical simulations
to investigate the effect of a rotating control rod placed along the
axis of a cylindrical lid-driven cavity of H/R=2 where the unperturbed
flow contains a steady axial vortex breakdown.  When the rod is
co-rotated with the lid, the breakdown can be supressed; when
counter-rotated, enhanced.  Similar effects are observed when the
solid rod is replaced by boundary conditions that produce an axial
vortex.  It is argued that the effects are brought about by sources or
sinks of vorticity introduced around the singularities at the ends of
the rods, and this is supported by the addition of vorticity source
and sink terms directly into a simulation without a rod present.

OVERALL ASSESSMENT

While the manuscript is of comparatively modest scope, this is
interesting work and should be published in JFM. I would first like to
see the authors answer/address a number of questions, however.

POINTS FOR RESPONSE

1. The Introduction seemed over-long and addressed a number of other
works of rather marginal relevance. I feel the Introduction could be
shortened and at the same time give more direct motivation for the
present work e.g. in micro-fluidics/bioreactors.

2. I am concerned that in a flow where the control effects are
arguably brought about by the action of singularities the authors have
not performed more rigorous resolution checks, especially in the cases
where the control rod is present and rotated.  It seems that when
there is a rod present, this occupies the first computational radial
cell in the mesh, and there is no boundary-layer refinement applied.
I would like to see a tabulation of solution variable at various
points in the domain (and especially, near the singularities) for
different mesh resolutions in order to better justify the choice made.

3. The authors should more fully discuss the issue of 2D and 3D
instabilities. Specifically, the analysis by Gelfgat et al. (1996)
suggests that for H/R=2, there is a 2D bifurcation to time-periodic
behaviour at approx. Re=2600 (this matches what the authors show us in
figure 9) and the initial 3D RW instability in the unperturbed flow
occurs in azimuthal wavenumber k=2 and at approx. Re=3000. I.e. it is
unlikely that at Re=2200 or even 2600 there is much cause to think the
flow might become 3D for relatively small perturbations, but the
authors should show they have considered this point.

4. It is my understanding that figure 9 is not a purely a bifurcation
diagram, but a combination bifurcation diagram and regime map. For a
bifurcation, it is expected that there are a number of solution
branches, and stability switches from one to the other at a
bifurcation. Thus, the changes from steady to unsteady solutions on
figure 9 are bifurcations (since the steady state remains as an
unstable solution), but the various steady states are all just
different stable solutions (one could not track across the boundaries
using a continuation technique) and these boundaries do not represent
bifurcations.

5. In section 5, the authors need to better explain the derivation of
the (un-numbered) equation near the bottom of page 11. It is not easy
to understand the choice of an axial length scale at the
singularities, or even if it makes sense to do this. Also, the
vorticity source is said to be "always negative" but I think this is
only true near the fixed lid, but is positive at the other end. As
these points are the basis of the remaining arguments in the
Discussion, they should be more carefully explained and illustrated.

6. Could the authors please attempt to explain the
supression/enhancement of vortex in breakdown terms of the physical
arguments presented by Brown & Lopez (1990)?

7. I suggest the authors avoid the terminology "upper/lower" ends of
the container and instead talk in terms of ends with
rotating/non-rotating lids.

8. In figure 12, please indicate the spatial extents of the vorticity
sources.



