TITLE:        Three-dimensional Floquet stability analysis of the
              wake in cylinder arrays

AUTHORS:      NK-R Kevlahan

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluid Mechanics

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

This is a stability/DNS study of 3D flow instability in tube
bundles. The tube bundle is taken to be represented by an equispaced
periodic array, and two inflow angles are analysed: parallel with a
generator of the array, and at 45 degrees to both. The main
pitch/diameter ratio studied is 1.5:1.  Reynolds numbers are mainly
below 200, but some DNS with a nominal Re of 1000 is also supplied.
The main finding is that the flow is 3D unstable at Reynolds numbers
below or comparable (depending on how the Reynolds number is computed)
to those for an isolated cylinder. Also, the unlike the case for the
isolated cylinder, there is no spectral gap in spanwise wavenumber
space between the 2D and initial 3D instability.

I feel the material is suitable for publication in JFM, and since this
is essentially a comparison to existing studies of the isolated
cylinder, it does not need to be especially long, so seems appropriate
for fast-track publication. However the manuscript does need some
changes, and more work. I think this can be accomplished within the
10-page limit.

MAIN POINTS
-----------

1. There is an assumption, never made explicit, that all the
instabilities are spatially periodic. Even in the absence of 2D
motion, the flow is spatially periodic, so one assumes it is also
potentially susceptible to a 2D *spatial* Floquet instability (try
searching for "spatial Floquet"). So once there is also 2D
time-periodic shedding, a more complete analysis should really be of
spatio-temporal Floquet type (as opposed to just temporal, as
presented here). Some consideration suggests that the flow could only
be further destabilized by the contribution of spatial Floquet
instability. I feel these matters should be touched on in the
manuscript.

2. The symmetries of the 2D base flows and their instabilities should
be supplied. For example, the symmetries for modes A and B were
supplied in Barkley and Henderson 1996, and this was generalized to
the symmetries of all possible instabilities of 2D
time-periodic/symmetric wakes by Blackburn, Marques & Lopez JFM
522. Supplying the symmetries in mathematical form should potentially
be be both more precise and concise than lengthy prose and will aid
comparison to the isolated cylinder's modes A and B.

3. A related point is that most of the spatial information regarding
3D instability is obtained and presented based on DNS. Why? I would
have thought that the spatial information could be obtained and
presented mainly from Floquet eigenmodes. I do feel that DNS is a good
way of checking the stability analysis outcomes, but the emphasis on
it could be reduced in such a short manuscript. (While it is a good
check, one is wary that the spanwise length scale of structures
obtained in such DNS is heavily influenced by the spanwise domain
length.) I did not find the information presented in figures 7 and 8
very informative. In the case of figure 8 especially I did not see a
great deal of similarity between the Floquet mode results and those
from the DNS. In the case of figure 7, the plots are so small that
they are difficult to interpret.

4. Some of the plots of Floquet multiplier, figures 4a and 5a, seem to
show a number of response curves that really should be drawn so as to
differentiate between them (e.g. there seem to be two separate curves
in 4a and possibly three in 5a).  The numerical method used should be
able to discriminate at least the first two leading modes - this will
help to show the locii of the various curves in the regions where they
cross. Please can we also be told: are the Floquet multipliers real on
all these curves, or are there curves for which they are complex?

5. I was concerned that the computations seemed rather
inaccurate/noisy, for example the results shown in figures 4 and 5
show distinct signs of this. A related point is that for beta=0, the
Floquet multiplier should be exactly unity (e.g. figure 5b, where it
is visibly different) - in fact the ability to reproduce this result,
required by Floquet theory, is a good test of such a
computation. These two things undermined my confidence in the author's
claims that the results were spatially (and perhaps, temporally?)
resolved. I suggest the author checks these points. Also, the Floquet
mode shapes should be checked for their sensitivity to Krylov
dimension (this typically affects the Ritz mode shapes more than the
computed eigenvalue/Floquet multiplier).

6. The results for Re=1000 could be cut - especially as the Reynolds
number is high enough that one would like some detailed proof of
spatio-temporal resolution. Why could not the results be drawn from
the same Reynolds number ranges as used for the stability analysis?

7. On page 5, the author makes an important point about the flows
being 3D unstable to long-wavelength perturbations as soon as there is
2D vortex shedding. This is different to what occurs for the isolated
cylinder, but it should be explained that this difference in behaviour
is related to the difference in curvatures in the mu--beta
relationship at beta=0. For the isolated cylinder, the second
derivative of the curve is negative, whereas here it is positive for
both flow orientations (see e.g. figure 5b).

MINOR POINTS
------------

8. In the abstract, the author talks about "rotated" and "inline"
arrays. I suggest devising something else: an "inline" array suggests
a linear (1D) array, whereas an array could be "rotated" in any number
of ways.

9. In figure 1, "theta" is so small as to be nearly indecipherable - I
missed it on first inspection.

10. In figure 2, the "alternating" nature of the shedding in (a) cannot
be seen from a single snapshot, while in (b) what is presented does
not appear "symmetric". The author needs to take more care with the
descriptions here. This is a case where having the symmetries written
down in the text might be useful.

11. In table 1, the two Floquet results for the isolated cylinder need
to be credited to Barkley and Henderson.

12. For figures 3 and 6 we need some quantitative information about the
contour levels employed.
