TITLE:        Flow instability and WSS variation in intracranial aneurysms
              
AUTHORS:      Karniadakis, Baek, Jayaraman & Richardson

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Royal Society Interface

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

A CFD study of flow of Newtonian fluid in three patient-specific
geometries with aneurysms in the carotid bifurcation. The inflow
waveform is obtained from a separate study. Vessel distensibility is
ignored. Significant flow oscillations and variations in wall shear
stress are reported at locations within the aneurysms. This is
interesting information, although diagnostic rather than prognostic.
Given the large volume of output that could be provided, the authors
have tried to condense the amount actually presented - perhaps to too
great a degree.

RECOMMENDATION

This is significant and interesting work. Aside from the information
on flow physics, I think the figures which show the relationship
between wall shear stress and direction are new and really impossible
to obtain any other way. The manuscript is well written and easy to
follow. I recommend the article be accepted subject to the authors
addressing the modifications suggested below.

POINTS

1. The authors make a number of remarks regarding flow instability and
we are shown time traces of rapid temporal flow variation within
aneurysmal cavities.  Given that the flows will very likely exhibit
convective instability, more attention need be given to locating the
flow separations or other features that are responsible.  These could
lie well upstream of the aneurysms themselves.  Such an investigation
would significantly strengthen and add interest to the work, please can
it be provided. 

2. A strength of the numerical method used is the ability to provide h
as well as p refinement, yet in the appendix we are given just a
p-refinement study. Given the limited range of convergence evident in
figure 15, and the fact that convergence for most of the points listed
in figure 16 is not convincingly exponential, it would have been
useful to have investigated both h & p refinement. Is this possible
for at least one of the geometries presented?

3. Given the elongated geometry of the domains it is difficult to
gauge the effective mesh size from the images in figure 1 and the
stated numbers of elements. Please supply images to show the spectral
element mesh on the external surfaces of the geometry, in both sets of
views for figure 1.

4. It is also unclear what, if any, boundary layer structure is
present in the mesh, so I suggest that as an adjunct either to figure
1 or figure 2 we are shown the mesh geometry on a cut through the
domain.

5. Some attempt should be made to compare and contrast this work with
previous in-vitro and computational studies of flows in the carotid
artery (including those without aneurysms) for example Fischer et al.,
Comp Meth Appl Mech Eng V196:3049-3060, 2007.

6. Please give more detail of the inflow: show the waveform and supply
the Fourier coefficients. The authors should point out that in reality
the waveform would vary as mean flow rate is increased (while they
have apparently held the waveform shape constant but scaled it up or
down to vary the mean flow rate).

7. While they are admittedly interesting, the scatter plots of WSS vs
direction in figures 12 and 13 are hard to interpret. The information
would be better presented in the form of a "wind rose" i.e. a plot of
WSS probability density contours vs direction. (Is it really
"direction change", or just direction relative to some arbitrary
reference?)

8. One thing that did not come across clearly was how much flow
instability as opposed to just plain pulsatility is responsible for
variation in WSS data, especially in regions that are likely (say on
account of local OSI) to be physiologically vulnerable. The manuscript
would be strengthened if this could be better pinned down.

9. Only three pulse cycles are computed. While the authors state that
"we confirmed that the flow field reaches a stationary state within
two pulse cycles", however the line plot in figure 2 suggests
otherwise. Please provide quantitative information to demonstrate that
the results have indeed reached a stationary state.

10. Some terms need to be defined. In the very first paragraph of the
Introduction, "blebs" are referred to - these are blisters,
apparently, but I have never seen the term before.  PCoA is used but
not defined (as opposed to all the other acronyms).  Please define OSI
by way of an equation.
