TITLE:        Flow instability and WSS variation in intracranial aneurysms
              
AUTHORS:      Baek, Jayaraman, Richardson & Karniadakis

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Royal Society Interface

REVIEW:       Second

RECOMMENDATION

I'm afraid that I cannot yet recommend acceptance, mainly owing to
concern about mesh resolution, and, to a lesser extent, description of
the numerics; see the points below. I would like to see these issues
resolved, since as I said in the first review, this is significant and
interesting work.

1. The authors now provide in appendix A and Figure 14 a h-resolution
study (varying number of elements) as well as a p-resolution study
(varying polynomial order within each element).  However, firstly, it
seems from table 2 that the reported results (for patient C only, in
Appendix A) are typically for the lowest number of elements in the
h-refinement study (of order 80,000), and, secondly, while a
p-refinement study has been done, we are not as far as I can see
actually told what value of p was chosen for the bulk of the computed
results. In relation to the first of these points, we see in Figure
14(c) that the energy error in WSS (integrated over the patch shown in
figure 14a) varies by of order 100% as the number of elements changes
from of order 80,000 (used in the remainder of the computed results,
according to Table 2) to 120,000 at p=4. Given that the local errors
in WSS are likely to be much larger, this is concerning.  For the
second point, we see in figure 14(g) and 14(h) that there is a 1- to
2-order of magnitude reduction in either integrated WSS energy error
or pointwise velocity error as the polynomial order reduces from 4 to
8.  This does demonstrate exponential convergence, however one would
feel concerned if the bulk of the presented results are at the lower
end of the range.  It seems possible that the bulk of the reported
results are for the lower ends of both h- and p-refinement in which
case they could be considered under-resolved. Of course the basic
issue is whether this has had significant influence on the reported
phyiscs.  It is quite difficult to make a general conclusion about
this on the basis of the time-traces in figure 14 (e) and (f) and the
(difficult to resolve) spectrum of figure 14(d).  All this examintaion
is only for one patient geometry.

I suggest that the details of p-order (as well as number of elements,
already reported) be tied down in Table 2, for a start.  The whole
issue of convergence also needs more careful treatment in Section 2,
Methods, where the outcomes of Appendix A and Figure 14 are seemingly
not mentioned. Basically the reader needs to be well convinced of the
adequacy of resolution before progressing to the remainder of the
manuscript.

2. Regarding section 2, Methods, where the authors talk about the code
used, there should be less emphasis on telling us the varied
capabilities of the code (e.g.: either continuous or discontinous
Galerkin, various types of element geometries) and more on the
specifics of what choices were made in this study.
