TITLE:        Immersed boundary method for flow around an arbitrarily
              moving body

AUTHORS:      D Kim and H Choi

SUBMITTED TO: J Comput Phys

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

This manuscript describes a coupling between an immersed boundary
method for treatment of flows past solid bodies and an accelerating
reference frame (ARF) method for dealing with fluid-structure coupling
and (solid-body-type) motion.  Both these techniques have been
described and quite widely applied elsewhere, but apparently have not
been coupled previously.  On the ARF side, the authors employ a
formulation originally presented by Beddhu, Taylor & Whitfield (JCP
V128) that allows the body-motion terms to be dealt with in
conservative form (the original authors used the formulation for
steady Navier-Stokes problems only).  The immersed boundary treatment
is apparently identical to that described by Kim, Kim & Choi (JCP
V171).  The coupled method is then used on some example problems, with
both forced body motion and fluid-structure interaction, and in both
two and three space dimensions.

In general I believe the material is suitable for publication in JCP,
although the degree of novelty is marginal.

MAIN POINTS
-----------

1.  In section 2, Numerical Method, the depth of treatment for the
discretisation of the spatial derivative terms is minimal; the only
description I could see was this, at the end of para.1, p.8: "The
second-order central difference scheme is used for all the spatial
derivative terms in a staggered grid system".  A small amount of extra
detail would be welcome, even though the methods are fairly
standard.  How are the systems of equations solved?

2. It was not clear what the overall time-order of the scheme is (by
implication, it is second, but no statement or demonstration is
supplied).  Some tabulations of results to demonstrate the time (and
preferably also, spatial) order of convergence should be included.

3. The advantages of the presented method are implied to be associated
with the treatment of the reference-frame terms in conservative form,
and implicit form.  This work would be much stronger if the authors
could supply some direct comparisons of results achieved through
different treatments.


MINOR POINTS
------------

4. In the Introduction, especially, the authors make a number of
imprecise and unsubstantiated points.  E.g. at the end of p.3,
referring to other methods where force coefficients are discretised
explicitly in time; "... this approach MAY NOT describe full
interaction effects between the fluid and structure, and SOMETIMES
produces numerical instability" (my emphasis).  Does it or does it not
describe full interaction terms, and can a reference be supplied to
substantiate the claim about numerical instability?  Also, just before
this, they say "Owing to the numerical difficulties associated with
the two-way interaction between the fluid and the structure, not many
studies have been carried out [7]", while in fact quite a number of
results of studies of this kind are presented in reference [7].

5. I thought that the use of the term "hot issues" at the start of p.2
amounted to slang, and suggest the authors could re-phrase the
sentence.

6. The caption for Figure 10 needs amendment so that (as is the case
for the other figure captions) it is apparent which results derived
from the original work.
