TITLE:        Examination of adjoint boundary condition in wave source
              estimation problem
              
AUTHORS:      T Kurahashi & M Kawahara

SUBMITTED TO: Int J Numerical Methods in Fluids

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

The manuscript is concerned with data assimilation for the shallow
water equations, i.e. the optimal prediction of an initial surface
height distribution that will generate a set of observed measurements
of surface heights obtained at a limited number of locations. This
area has previously been examined, for example by Courtier & Talagrand
(1990) and Pires & Miranda (2001). The main innovation in the present
work appears to be that boundary conditions are derived for the
adjoint variables on a comparatively small domain with an outflow
boundary condition.

OVERALL ASSESSMENT

The work is interesting and overall I would recommend publication in
IJNMF, subject to some problems being addressed, see below. The logic
of the exposition is not easy to understand in places, also attention
to better use of English is needed.

POINTS

1. Since much research has previously been performed in this area, the
authors need to make more explicit exactly what is novel about the
present work, and provide better motivation for pursuing these
innovations (e.g. what aspects the other published methods do not
adequately address).

2. More complete reference to past work should be given, for example
leading up to equations (11) and (14).

3. In figure 1 the coordinate directions are shown as x_1, x_2, x_3,
whereas in the text they seem to be named x, y, z.

4. In the algorithmic description starting at the bottom of page 5,
equation numbers and other textual cross-referencing should be
added to help the reader understand what is going on.

5. At the bottom of page 6, I did not understand why the iterative
calcuation for inverse analysis could not be carried out. Please
explain more fully. Following on over to page 8, what are t* and u*?
These variables do not seem to have been previously defined.

6. In para 2, page 8, we are told that the computed initial water
elevations as shown in figures 8 & 9 are "a little less" than the
exact value. However, the peak values are in fact approximately 20%
less than the exact values, and the text should say so. Given that
there are in effect only two observation points (as the problem is
symmetrical) a 20% error does not seem unreasonable.

7. Following from this point, one would expect that the time histories
at location pairs 1,2 and 3,4 should be identical but in fact,
especially comparing early times in figures 10 & 11, they are
not. This make me suspect that the numerics for the shallow wave
equations themselves have a bug. Please fix the bug and re-perform the
calculations, or else adequately explain why a lack of symmetry is
observed.

8. Why is it significant (as at the bottom of text on pages 8 and 14)
that the adjoint traction be small? What is the significance of the
history of the adjoint traction as shown in figure 19?

9. Figure captions are often too terse and should convey more
information.



