TITLE:        Biglobal stability analysis in curvilinear coordinates of
              massively separated lifting bodies
              
AUTHORS:      Kitsios, V, Rodriguez, D, Theofilis, V, Ooi, A & Soria J

SUBMITTED TO: J Comput Phys

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

A mapping method is used to convert the linearized Navier-Stokes
equations for incompressible external flows around a single body
(here, an airfoil) into a rectangular coordinate system where a
spectral discretization is employed to provide a full (and
potentially, huge) matrix of the linearized Navier-Stokes operator. A
parallel Arnoldi method is then used to recover a large part of the
operator's eigenspectrum.  Unfortunately it seems that at presently
affordable resolutions the method is not especially accurate other
than for the leading eigenvalues, where common iterative techniques
such as the implicitly restarted Arnoldi method would also serve, and
at a far lower computational expense.  It seems there is no
theoretical reason that accuracy could not be improved as spatial
resolution is increased, however this improved accuracy would come at
the expense of what are presently very large memory requirements.  One
suspects that the accuracy of the method must be degraded by the
number of mappings (four, in total) required to arrive at the final
rectangular grid system. The authors are themselves rather equivocal
about the utility of the method (see e.g. the very last sentence of
the manuscript prior to the acknowledgements).

RECOMMENDATION

Despite the fact that there are some difficulties with the accuracy of
the method, I believe it is novel and interesting enough to justify
publication in JCP, if only to show how difficult such full-spectrum
calculations are in flows where the geometry is moderately complex. I
do have some suggestions for minor changes, as outlined below.

POINTS

1. I suggest that figure 4 or some version of it should appear as the
first figure of the manuscript in order to serve as orientation for the
reader.

2. Other workers have used mapping methods for full-spectrum
calculations, admittedly in much simpler geometries and these works
(e.g. Akervik et al. 2007, Ehrenstein & Gallaire 2008) are cited by
the current authors in the Introduction.  Please add some more
discussion that compares and contrasts the methodology and
capabilities of the various methods.

3. A 'shift and invert' eigensolution strategy is employed. But at the
top of page 7, we are told that no shift is used. Why? Could one
perhaps achieve greater accuracy by using a variable shift to cover
different parts of the spectrum? Please comment.

4. What IC is used to initialize the Arnoldi iterations? Some comment
is also needed to explain why an iterative method must be adopted even
though the full matrix of the operator is retained.

5. The caption for what is now figure 2 should state that the mesh
here is used only for computation of the base flow.

6. Just following equation (40), what does 'and pass' mean? Last
sentence of para 1, page 17, delete 'of the two options', add a comma
after smoother. Following equation (28), 'there are no' --> 'there is
no'. Page 7, para 2: 'employes' --> 'employs'.
