TITLE:        Inner-scaled turbulence statistics in a turbulent pipe flow

AUTHORS:      Lee, Jang & Sung

SUBMITTED TO: Phys Fluids

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

A review/compilation of DNS results for friction-velocity-normalised
streamwise velocity fluctuations, with additional results for a single
pipe-flow DNS conducted by the present authors for Re_tau=934.  The
main motivation for the manuscript appears to lie in examining DNS
data in relation to the claims made by Smits and co-workers (Refs 4 and
5) based on experimental data that the peak streamwise velocity
fluctuation (and its radial location) is Re-invariant in pipe flows,
in contrast to findings for turbulent flat-plate boundary layers,
where the observed trend is that normalised fluctuating streamwise
velocity increases with Re_tau.


RECOMMENDATION

I have to recommend that the manuscript be rejected. Reasons:

1. The central area of investigation is Reynolds-number effects on
peak streamwise velocity fluctuation. The authors state in the
abstract that "insight into this *trend* was sought by conducting a
... DNS of ... turbulent pipe flow ... at Re_tau=934".  However the
dominant content of the manuscript *with respect to this trend*
comprises a review of other turbulent-flow DNS results seen in Fig 3,
and the *new* DNS results presented here provide only a single data
point on this plot since only a single Reynolds number was used. It is
unclear to me how much light the remaining plots and discussion throw
on the central question.

2. I suggest the main thrust of the manuscript is contained in
Fig. 3. The present authors seem to suggest that the DNS data on
u+_max for turbulent pipe flows fall (with the other DNS data included
for TBL and channel flows) on a trend line that increases with Re. At
first sight this seems a reasonable conclusion. However, if one takes
*only the pipe flow data* on this plot and compares these with the
error band presented for experimental results in Fig 4b of Ref 4
(these are given over a wider Re-range than the present plot), then
the case does not seem as strong. I believe that the pipe flow DNS
data presented here do not allow us to draw a conclusion about the
"contradictory trend" alluded to in the Abstract.

In my experience, DNS studies conducted with different codes and
nominally similar resolution can show significant scatter even in
comparatively straightforward quantities such as u+_max (see for
example the scatter in the three filled triangles, all for pipe flow,
near Re_tau=600 on Fig 4 - the vertical scatter is wider than the
(square root of the) error band on Fig 4b of Ref 4).  I think that in
order to throw significant light on the question at issue the authors
would need to examine the trend with Re on u+_max obtained with the
same code and with correctly scaled equivalent (and adequate)
resolution over a wider range of Re than is considered here, or at
least consider pipe flow DNS data over a wider range of Re than is
dealt with here.
