TITLE:		Investigation of turbulent flow past a yawed wavy cylinder
              
AUTHORS:	Lam K, Lin YF, Zou L and Lin Y

SUBMITTED TO: 	J Fluid Struct

REVIEW:       	First

LES simulation of flow past straight and wavy circular cylinders at
Re=3900, with experimental results obtained in water and wind
tunnels, at similar and larger Reynolds numbers. Compared to previous
papers in this series of work, the principal innovation is the
examination of the effect of yaw angles, up to 60 degrees, which does
not seem to have received previous numerical examination at Reynolds
numbers for which the wake is turbulent.

I can recommend that the paper be accepted for publication subject to
the authors making revisions in line with or adequate responses to the
points below.

1. In many cases the authors suggest that their findings are directly
relevant to VIV.  While this may be true, they have not explicitly
studied VIV, but rather FSI, or forces which may initially excite
VIV. It is quite posssible that once significant motion amplitudes are
reached, the effects of yaw and waviness on the forces produced may be
significantly different. The authors write (for example on page 4) as
though studies of fluctuating forces on stationary structures are the
same as studies of VIV -- more circumspection is called for.

2. The choice of wavelength and amount of diametral variation was
selected on the basis of of investigations at much lower Reynolds
number, where these values lead to substantial reduction in forces in
the unyawed case. The authors suggest on page 4 that these then
represent global optima for all Re and yaw angles. Again, more
circumspection and dicussion is called for.

3. Material at the opening of section 5, Results and Discussion,
should be moved to the Introduction.

4. The Smagorinksy turbulence model is used, but more detail should be
supplied, as values for both Cs and mesh length scale are needed.
Please give the reader just a little more information about the SGS
computation, preferably with an equation, and a definition of the mesh
length scale employed.  Was any modification (e.g. van Driest damping)
used to reduce the effect of the model near the cylinder walls? If
not, why not?

5. Insufficient detail is given of experimental rigs, especially end
treatments, and assessment of end effects. Turbulence intensity in
wind tunnel should be supplied.  Please include more material.

6. I recommend the re-ordering of some figures to aid the logical flow
of the material in the Results and Discussion section.  Specifically I
would put figures 5 and 6 before figure 4, and figure 8 before figure
7.  This would make easier the interpretation of various features of
the flow visualisations (for example, where regions of reverse flow
exist), which are most easily deduced from the graphs, and also mean
that the authors do not effectively need to refer forwards to the
graphs (which they do not presently do in an explicit way, but on the
other hand make statements about flow features which are not readily
apparent without reference to the graphs).

7. Please make the ordinate axes the same in all panels of figure 5,
and preferably also draw in zero lines.  This would help to make much
more plain that there is no reverse flow in the streamwise direction
in the near wake at yaw angle 45 degrees, and very little at 30
degrees.

8. Information about the spanwise correlation of fluctuating lift and
drag forces would be useful as this is often used in design.
Presumably this is not too difficult to compute from the LES.

9. For the straight unyawed cylinder, there have been a number or
previous experimental investigations at or near Re=3900 to which the
authors should refer and comment upon, for example Ong and Wallace
Exps Fluids V20 (1996), and Lourenco and Shih (cited by Beaudan and
Moin, CTR TF-62, 1994).  This is especially true because the
experimental data which the present authors supply for this case might
be more widely referred to by others in future.

10. Where flow visualisations in the form of isosurfaces or contours,
as in figures 3, 4 and 7, are supplied, we need to be told what scalar
these represent, and preferably in the case of isosurfaces, figure 3,
what actual dimensionless values are represented (also, are these the
same in all cases?).

11. Please delete the ellipses in para 1, Introduction. 

12. In the caption to figure 3, explain what the dashed lines represent.

13. Are figures from other papers (e.g. fig 3 a-c) used with permission?

14. For fig 14 caption, supply Reynolds numbers. Detail normalisation
of spectra (e.g. areas are equal to mean square Cl).

15. It is stated that statistics are computed over about 30 shedding
periods, with a dimensionless timestep of 0.02. This gives 1500
timesteps instead of the 150 as supplied on p. 11.

16. In figure 9, I would suggest that the velocity vectors be
resampled onto a uniform grid so as not to suppress detail near the
front and rear mean stagnation lines. Also, the velocity vectors are
not "colored with pressure coefficient" as stated in the caption, but
are shown overlaid on contours of pressure coefficient.

17. On page 20 it is stated that "Cp distributions behind the wavy
cylinder are much larger than those behind the circular cylinder which
leads to the drag reduction ...".  I did not understand this
statement. Do the authors mean that Cp values were larger (less
nagative) on the rear face of the wavy cylinder, or were they making a
comment about the shape/extent of the Cp contours as shown in figure
9?
