TITLE:        Global spectrum of the tangent operator for flow past
	      a circular cylinder

AUTHORS:      Lopez, Meneghini and Saltara

SUBMITTED TO: Applied Numerical Mathematics

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATTER

The manuscript described the use of a solenoidal finite element method
to calculate a large number of eigenvalues for the linear stability of
steady flow past a circular cylinder at low Reynolds number. The
problem has been tackled a number of times in the past (notably by
Jackson, JFM V182); the apparent novelty of the present treatment is
that, since it delivers the full spectrum of its discretisation, it
provides more complete information about the nature of the global
spectrum.

I believe the manuscript could ultimately be published, but only
subject to revision to overcome quite a few difficulties, as outlined
below.

1. The authors do a poor job of motivating the investigation: the
eigenpairs of the most dangerous mode for the problem under study are
quite well-understood, so why should we care about the rest of the
spectrum? What might be its physical significance? What is the nature
of the next most dangerous modes?

2. The "tangent operator" referred to in the title is never actually
defined for the reader. Likewise, the terms "differential Frechet
operator" (first sentence of abstract) and "jacobian matrix" (bottom
of page 12) - presumably the same things.

3. The computational domain is rather small, and this probably
accounts for most of the quantitative difference found in onset
Strouhal number when compared to previous works (around 20% too
large). The authors need to state this, or otherwise they need to
demonstrate that in fact their results are insensitive to domain size
(say by doubling it in all directions).

4. I'm sorry to say that, even considering it is no doubt not their
first language, the authors' use of English is poor, and needs a
substantial amount of attention. There are many errors of usage and
spelling, so many that I won't try to list them, but careful revision
is needed to eradicate them all.

5. Because the real problem is on an open domain, in fact the true
global spectrum will have both continuous and discrete parts. The
authors need to state this clearly for the reader. My guess is that
the continuous part is a line extending to negative infinity along the
real axis, but can the authors be more definitive? 

6. As the method is discrete, it can only deliver an approximation,
even to the discrete part of the spectrum for the real problem. I
should say that (unless we have a domain size check and mesh
refinement study) the only reliable part of the spectrum could be that
shown in figure 4. The authors really need to supply the outcomes of
these checks.

7. And just what is the nature of the spectrum? On page 6 we are told
that "there are [sic] a countably infinite number of isolated
[eigenvalues] and all lie inside a parabola opening out to the left in
the complex ... plane". But on inspection of figures 3 and 4, this
turns out to be not quite true, and later, on page 13, we find the
statement "The parabolic form is in the boundary of more dangerous
eigenvalues with the particularity that the topological global form of
spectrum is not a parabola". The authors need to take more care here!
If it is true that the envelope of the spectrum to the left of, say
-0.4 in the complex plane, is actually parabolic, that is interesting;
is there any theoretical reason why this might be so? Can one prove it
should be parabolic?

8. The discussion following this on pages 13 and 14, while
interesting, seems too speculative.  Writing about the "peak" of
eigenvalues that pierces the "parabola" and ultimately provides the
instability, they state that they "believe that this is an important
characteristic of spectrums [sic] of wake flows in general". Why? If
they can provide no evidence of the generality, then there is no
reason why we should joint them in believing this. (On the other hand
it seems plausible.) At the bottom of page 14, the authors write about
the "separation of four dangerous eigenvalues that we observe in
Figure 4 close to the imaginary axis: we believe that this is a
particular characteristic of the stability spectrum of the circular
cylinder." Again, on what basis do they believe this? I also had
difficulty understanding what were the "separation" and eigenvalues
referred to.

9. Related: I suggest the authors could significantly strengthen their
manuscript by demonstrating the Re-dependence of the spectrum, both in
the large, and near the imaginary axis.

