Title:        Global spectrum of the tangent operator for flow past
	      a circular cylinder

AUTHORS:      Lopez, Meneghini and Saltara

SUBMITTED TO: Applied Numerical Mathematics

REVIEW:	      Second


I feel that the authors' response to my first review was perfunctory
and so I still cannot recommend publication. Here is my response to
their responses, point-by-point.

1. There still is no simple statement to motivate the current
study. Why would we be interested in the "full spectrum" as opposed
to the most dangerous modes? I do not feel that "I want to leave the
introduction the way it is" is sufficient response.

2. OK.

3. If studies were carried out in the author's PhD thesis, then we
should be told this, and given a summary of the main findings
(e.g. How did the domains differ? How did the outcomes differ?)

4. OK.

5. It is important to mention the continuous part of the spectrum here
because the authors have claimed to deliver the "global spectrum"
whereas in reality they deliver a discrete approximation to it, on a
finite domain. Most other studies just look at the first few most
dangerous modes. So it important here to point out to the reader that
there are modes (including the continuous part of the spectrum) which
their method cannot deliver. A response that "I would prefer not to
mention the continuous spectrum" is not adequate.

6. Again I feel the authors are avoiding the issue that they are only
calculating a discrete approximation to the full spectrum. So they
need to be clear in stating this, and to indicate what checks they
have carried out to ensure that what we see for the most dangerous
part of the spectrum in figure 4 is in fact reliable.

7. I do not understand the answer. Either the envelope of the spectrum
is or is not parabolic. If it is approximately parabolic but the
reason why this should be is not known, then say so.

8. I think this comes down to semantics. If the authors "believe"
these points then they should supply reasons why they do. If these
points are merely speculation, then that is OK, but in general they
should say e.g. "We may speculate that ..." instead of "We believe
that ...".

9. OK.

