TITLE:        The relationship betweem stirring rate and Reynolds
	      number in chaotically advected steady flow in a
	      container with exactly counter-rotating lids

AUTHORS:      TC Lackey and F Sotiropoulos

SUBMITTED TO: Phys Fluids

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

The authors compute incompressible steady flows with steady k=3
azimuthal wave states inside a cylindrical container of aspect ratio
H/R=AR=1 with lids that counter-rotate at the same speed. Nominal
Reynolds numbers fall in the range 295--850. They then use a measure
of Lagrangian particle separations to quantify `stirring rate' in
these flows. Computations are done with a finite volume method on a
mesh with rotation symmetry in azimuth.

The material is generally suitable for publication in Physics of
Fluids. However, there are some problems with the numerics and
method of approach, and these have to be addressed before the
manuscript could be considered further.

MAJOR POINTS:

1. One major difficulty stems from the existence of a stability
analysis of the flow by Nore et al. (JFM 511, 2004) for aspect ratios
H/R from 0.5 to 3 and the fact that the current authors' results do
not appear capable of matching the dynamics predicted in that
study. This point is never convincingly confronted by the authors, but
rather they skirt around the issue (and are happy to claim agreement
with Nore et al. for axisymmetric aspects of the flows below the
critical Reynolds number). To be precise, Nore et al. showed that for
0.5<H/R<0.63, wavenumber m=4 mode is the primary instability, for
0.63<H/R<0.95 it is m=3, for 0.95<H/R<1.64 (which brackets the aspect
ratio used here), m=2, while for 1.64<H/R<3, m=1 holds. At H/R=1, the
order in which the states linearly bifurcate from axisymmetric flows
with increasing Re is: m=2 (300), m=3 (312), m=4 (387), m=1 (420), m=5
(534). On the other hand the authors have a state with m=3, Re=350,
and also, they have to perturb the flow quite hard to get to this
state, using a Re=700 transient. If they start the Re=350 case from
the Re=295 state, they do not get a wavy state. We are not told what
the outcome of the same protocol is for Re<300: does it lead to a wavy
state or not? If one starts with the wavy state at Re=350, what
happens as the Reynolds numbers are lowered to below the linear
instability threshold? Against these concerns, it is true that m=3 is
*a* linearly state at Re=350.

In my experience with DNS of similar flows, a numerical method with
low numerical dissipation and adequate mesh resolution will
immediately sustain an instability just slightly above the critical
Reynolds number, and only a tiny (BUT nonaxisymmetric) perturbation is
required to trigger it. So we have the suggestion that the numerics
are not reproducing the correct dynamics of the real system. While it
might be possible in the real system to obtain a m=3 steady wave state
at Re=350, say, the protocol for getting to it is unclear, and we are
left unsure how representative of the state computed here might be of
such a flow. It would be far easier to accept the current computations
if they were at least able to reproduce the correct primary
instability and dynamics near Re=300. Another way of looking at it is
that the authors have computed physics in a system that is a
perturbation of the incompressible Navier-Stokes system. However, we
do not know how big the difference is, and consequently, how
representative of a true incompressible Navier-Stokes system their
underlying flow states are, and thus, how representative of such a
system the rest of their results are.

Probably the only real way to clear up this issue conclusively is to
increase the spatial and temporal resolution until the correct
instability onset dynamics are obtained (surely this will happen with
enough resolution) i.e. m=2 at Re=300, and then increase Reynolds
numbers from there. Of course, still more resolution will be required
at the higher-end Reynolds numbers used in the study.  In the absence
of a detailed DNS or experimental study, we are also unsure if the m=3
state is relevant for the higher Reynolds numbers employed, since a
successively greater number of wavenumbers have instabilities as
Reynolds numbers are increased in this flow. Thus it is hard to know
how relevant the study is in relation to the basic issue examined, the
effect of Reynolds number on stirring rate in a real flow, since also
we might expect the underlying wave-number states of the flow to
change (rather than remain at m=3), and it is even possible that the
flow might become unsteady through mode interactions, as well through
the axisymmetric instability at Re=1316.

Conclusion: I don't feel the study should be rejected outright because
of these difficulties. But I think the authors ought to clearly lay
out the information about the analysis by Nore et al., tell us in what
ways the current computations agree with it, and in what ways they may
be perceived to be at variance with it; in general try to address
possible concerns on the reader's part, but without avoiding the
issue. I also recommend increasing the space/time resolution at least
until the correct dynamics are obtained close to Re=300.

2. Other questions relate to the Lagrangian aspects of the flow and
related numerical methodology (which will have its own numerical
errors distinct from those of the Navier-Stokes solver). The main
problem here is the abandonment of classical Poincare sections and
mappings in favour of "collapsing" the particle positions onto a
single azimuthal plane.  Presumably this means that the particle
positions are plotted without their azimuthal coordinate.  The authors
give various justifications for this approach, and also try to
undermine belief in the utility of Poincare sections for analysis of
mixing. It is not true (as on page 17) that "The success of a Poincare
map relies critically on the choice of initial conditions ... Poincare
maps are not very helpful because the dynamics are very rich and
drastically different than those of the base flow". What one does
instead is to use initial sampling to pick out regions of mixing and
non-mixing regions of the flow, and then fill these in in more
detail.

For incompressible flows, Poincare sections can be decomposed into
disjoint regions: (i) those where chaotic mixing occurs (ii) those
where chaotic mixing does not occur, in which case the particle paths
remain on either (a) limit cycles or (b) invariant surfaces. On
Poincare sections (iia) show up as fixed points and (iib) as closed
loops. So by using Poincare sections one can say where in the flow
chaotic mixing is or is not occurring, and hence say over what volume
of the fluid mixing is/is not occurring (and this is one of the
reasons Poincare sections are so useful). This critical information is
destroyed by the azimuthal projection used by the authors, and they
need to clearly spell this out.  A further critically important
feature of Poincare sections in an incompressible flow is that they
help diagnose the adequacy of otherwise of the simulation and particle
tracking methodology. Points that lie on invariant tori must stay
there (to within some numerically reasonable tolerance, anyway), and
not spiral in or out.

Conclusion: In order for the manuscript to be considered further the
authors must present us with at least a few representative Poincare
sections for each of the Reynolds numbers they have included, and if
possible relate any unmixed regions to Eulerian flow features.

MINOR POINTS:

3. In relation to the discussion of the mesh on page 5, the reason why
one should use a polar mesh in azimuth is that it preserves the
rotation symmetry of the real system. The information about the
non-orthogonal mesh used in a previous study is irrelevant and should
be omitted.

4. On page 8 it is stated that "Based on the findings of Nore et al.,
the AR=1 case we study herein lies exactly at the interface between
the emergence of the m=2 and m=3 azimuthal modes ... and the stability
analysis results appear inconclusive". As recounted above the
interface lies at AR=0.95, which is not "exactly" AR=1, and I would
say there is nothing "inconclusive" about their stability analysis,
which seemed very careful and thorough to me. It would be better to
say that the implications of their *linear* stability analysis are
difficult to determine in the nonlinear case, and so near to a codim-2
point.

5. Just following that on page 9 we are told that "Our results show
that for AR=1 the m=3 azimuthal mode is excited". It would be better
to say that by perturbation to obtain an m=3 outcome was obtained.

6. On page 10, some brief description of Jeong & Hussain's critierion
should be included -  even a single phrase would be sufficient.

7. At the bottom of page 11: "The blue material blob ... has been
... dispersed throughout the container". This is logically impossible
if there are unmixed regions (such as where the red blob resides).

8. On page 13: "... a Poincare map contains information that is not
*time accurate*".  This is a poor choice of words, since of the time
at which any particle strikes the section is precisely
defined. Perhaps they mean to say that temporal information is lost in
taking a Poincare section.

9. The measures expressed by equations 3 and 4, page 14, should be
weighted by radius in order to account for the cylindrical geometry.

10. Page 18: "every possible initial condition is associated with a
unique Lagrangian average". Omit "unique".
