TITLE:        The beginning of branching behaviour during
              vortex-induced vibration at 2-D Reynolds numbers

AUTHORS:      Leontini, Thompson & Hourigan

SUBMITTED TO: J Fluids & Structures

REVIEW:	      First

The title is a reasonable summary of the paper which is in general
suitable for publication in JFS. But the manuscript does require some
revision before I could recommend it be accepted, specifically
addressing the points below.

1. Given the previous similar work in this area by Blackburn &
Karniadakis (1993) and especially Blackburn & Henderson (1996, BH96),
it is very surprising that their results are not compared in detail
with the present results. Those earlier works are quite close-by in
parameter space (in the latter case, the same mass ratio, same damping
ratio, similar Re), and used very similar numerics and approach.
Obviously the authors are aware of these works since they are
referenced in the Introduction. Thereafter however, they are nowhere
mentioned. For example, the trends revealed in the first, second and
fourth panels of Figure 1 are very similar to those shown in Figure 2,
BH96, although the axes of these two figures are non-dimensionalised
in different fashion. BH96 also noted the presence of a synchronised,
locked regime and a non-synchronised chaotic regime (lift coefficients
are higher in the latter, but mean amplitudes are lower). These points
of comparison need to be discussed, but also the authors should point
out carefully what their new research contribution is, so
differentiating their present work from the past one (for example, the
information presented in figures 4 and 5).

2. The crossflow response shown for the chaotic regime in figure 2
here is very similar to that of figure 4, BH96.  BH96 demonstrated
that the frequency content of the signal (their figure 5) showed two
very distinct peaks, neither of which seemed related (or close) to the
in vacuo natural frequency or the fixed-cylinder shedding
frequency. Given this, it is surprising to see here in panel 4, figure
1, that there is assigned a single distinct response frequency over
the corresponding range of U*, and that it is quite close to the in
vacuo natural frequency. So the authors need to explain how their
frequency information was computed (if possible supplying a spectrum),
and also compare and discuss the relevant results of BH96.

3. Following from this point is the fact that the response is not then
synchronised over the entire "high-amplitude" band from U*=4.2 to 6.3,
as seems to be claimed in the final paragraph of section 4.2. It seems
the situation could be rather more complicated than this, and the
authors will need to revise the discussion here.

4. Coming to the main thrust of the paper, now, it is an interesting
suggestion that the double-branched (or even, triple-branched)
behaviour observed at higher Reynolds number finds its roots in
lower-Re 2D behaviour. On the other hand I feel it would make the
manuscript stronger if the authors could find more linkages other than
to show that two distinct types of 2D high-amplitude behaviour exist
(this much was known from BH96). For example, the ordering and extent
of the branches w.r.t. ranges of U*, the detailed behaviour of the
vortex shedding: how do these relate to what is known of the 3D cases?

5. The manuscript was well written and easy to follow. A very minor
error I noticed in the Abstract, final sentence: "this is found" ->
"this found".
