TITLE:        Transition phenomena in the wake of a square cylinder

AUTHORS:      SC Luo, X Tong and BC Khoo

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluid Mechanics

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

This is an experimental study of the 3D transition of the wake of a
square cylinder.  It seems essentially to be a cleanup of an earlier
closely-related study by Luo and other authors, published in Phys
Fluids V15N9, 2003 entitled `Characteristics of square cylinder wake
transition flows' (although the authors have not directly reproduced
any figures from the earlier paper).  From what I can gauge, the main
change in experimental technique was to more carefully control the
cylinder end conditions, which was a well-known fix applied in other
experimental wake studies.  The details of transition now seem closer
to those already well-known for the circular cylinder, and the real
amount of interesting new material here is not large.  There is some
discussion of features observed in flow visualisation but I don't feel
this really contributed towards resolving some of the controversies
that exist in this area -- and much of it seems similar to what was in
the earlier paper.

On the whole the manuscript is well-written and easy to understand, but I
found it far too long. The main question is whether the amount of new
and interesting material justifies a full-length JFM paper, and I'm
afraid that I feel it does not, although I would like to see the
material published somewhere. My assessment is that it should be
carefully edited to make it much shorter, emphasising the key new
findings, and appear as a letter or a brief communication.

In the event that the authors revise the manuscript for resubmission here
or elsewhere, here are some points they might consider:

1. It has recently been shown theoretically that for 2D flows with
these symmetries (ignoring end effects) kind there are only two kinds
of possible synchronous symmetry breaking bifurcations to 3D; either
they have to have symmetry of mode A or of mode B.  See Marques, Lopez
& Blackburn Physica D V189 (2004) and Blackburn, Marques & Lopez JFM
V522 (2005).  Hence showing that these exist in a new geometry (but in
a flow with the same symmetries) is not surprising -- even less
surprising (especially since this has already been demonstrated for
the square cylinder) is that modes A & B have exactly the same
symmetries and order of onset Reynolds number as the cylinder wake.
So there are two main ways in which the manuscript could be made
stronger: (a) showing the dynamics are different to the cylinder wake
or (b) by emphasising the similarities with the cylinder wake -- for
example by showing that the scaling of e.g. mode A wavelength to wake
width is the same (the ratio of lengths for A and B is apparently
similar in the two systems, so the potential for a unification of this
kind seems strong).  Since the dynamics appear almost identical to
those of transition in the circular cylinder wake (although some of
the detail after transition is different), the second of these two
possibilities seems the more obvious route.

2. Regarding the "subharmonic mode S" of the square cylinder wake, as
proposed by Robichaux et al. (1999), the authors have missed the
central point of the paper by Blackburn and Lopez (1999): the
computation of a subharmonic mode by Robichaux et al. was in error.
Further, subharmonic modes are virtually impossible to achieve in
these systems, as a result of the spatio-temporal symmetry of the 2D
base flows, see the papers cited in the last point.  This mode instead
has complex-conjugate pair Floquet multipliers (in agreement with the
intermediate-wavelength mode first noted for circular cylinder wakes
by Barkley & Henderson 1996), and would result in a
spanwise-travelling wave (perhaps modified by end constraints).  The
related discussion by the present authors in the Introduction, page 5,
and elsewhere in the manuscript (pages 6 and 31) needs to be modified
to take account of these facts.

3. I saw no mention of the fact that the onset of mode A for the
circular cylinder was shown to be subcritical in numerical results of
Henderson & Barkley, Phys Fluids V8, 1996, p. 1683. Very likely a
similar nonlinear analysis would find the same thing for the square
cylinder wake.
