TITLE:        Flow separation and velocities in an axisymmetric rigid
              stentotic vessel

AUTHORS:      Li Yao

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluids Engineering

REVIEW:	      First

This manuscript develops a Karman-Polhausen BL model of steady flow of
incompressible Newtonian fluid in a tube with a smooth stenotic
contraction. The axial velocity profile at each axial station is
assumed to be a cubic function of radius with coefficients that may
vary along the axis, while the radial velocity is assumed to be a
quartic function of radius (but with no constant term). Maximum
Reynolds numbers based on the bulk flow speed and tube diameter range
up to 900.

The central problem with the work is that the approximate solutions do
not seem to match well to available CFD solutions - and I not believe
that the published CFD solutions are at fault here. The separation
zones in these flows are typically (e.g. Siegel, Markou, Ku & Hanson,
J Biomech Eng V114, 1994; Sherwin & Blackburn, J Fluid Mech V533,
2005) very elongated in the axial direction downstream of separation
point in the throat, and do not usually have flow separation upstream
of the throat.  However the flow profiles presented in here in figures
9 and 10 show very truncated separation downstream of the throat and
also separation upstream of the throat (admittedly this latter feature
may be associated with the particular form of stenotic profile used
here, although it seems unlikely). Likewise, according to the author's
solutions the region of flow reversal downstream of the throat can
extend to much smaller radii than the throat itself, which is also not
observed in the CFD (or experimental) results. Related to this is the
way that the radial velocity profiles are predicted to very rapidly
recover a near-parabolic profile close to termination of the stenosis,
probably in turn related to the fact that the polynomial coefficients
will very rapidly lose dependence on axial coordinate soon downstream
of the throat, according to the parameters lambda and q at the top of
page 7.

This deficiency in the model is so major that I believe that the
manuscript must be rejected. I think that the author's goal is worthy,
but there is either a fundamental problem with the assumptions of the
model, or a mistake in derivation.
