TITLE: Three-dimensional transient Navier-Stokes solvers in
	      cylindrical coordinate system based on spectral
	      projection method using explicit treatment of the
	      pressure.
              
AUTHORS:      Li, B-W, Zhao, Y-R, Yu, Y and Qian, Z-D.

SUBMITTED TO: J Comput Phys

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

Spectral projection scheme to solve NS in cylindrical coordinates and
cylidrical geometry. Spatial discretization is
Chebyshev-Chebyshev-Fourier in axial-radial-azimuthal
coordinates. Mesh in the meridional plane is adjusted to avoid the
axis by two methods: either Gauss-Radau on domain 0--R or
Gauss-Lobatto on -R--R. Timesplitting is the commonly used
backwards-time "stiffly-stable" method (here, only second order) and
uses a pressure Poisson equation.

RECOMMENDATION

I believe the manuscript could be published in JCP, subject to it
being revised in accordance with the points raised below. The central
point which must be met in order for me to approve publication is that
spectral convergence must be demonstrated with a flow that crosses the
axis of the coordinate system.

POINTS

1. 3D cylindrical coordinate spectral methods are inadequately
verified unless they are checked with a flow that crosses the domain
axis. The flow used here (3.1) does not satisfy this requirement. An
example of how to proceed against an analytical solution is outlined
in "Blackburn & Sherwin (2004) Formulation of a Galerkin spectral
element–Fourier method for three-dimensional incompressible flows in
cylindrical geometries J Comp Phys 179(2): 759–778." Please change the
convergence checks to cover this. I suggest the authors also read and
reference that manuscript, and provide some discussion in connection
with this point.

2. As a related point the authors need to demonstrate exponential
spatial convergence separately in each of the axial, radial and azimuthal
directions.

3. In the abstract and elsewhere in the manuscript the authors state
that the discretization is Chebyshev. In fact it is
Chebeshev-Chebyshev-Fourier for solvers 1 & 2 and
Fourier-Chebyshev-Fourier for solver 3. Also it seems strange to me
(and perhaps confusing to a reader new to the area) to refer to the
uniform mesh used for a Fourier discretization as lying on the
Gauss-Lobatto points - why not just say the mesh spacing is uniform in
those directions?

4. To aid the reader, suggest the authors somewhere early in the
manuscript ouline the differences between the 3 solvers, possibly in
point form. I found I had to hunt around to remind myself of the
distinctions.

5. Why (as stated in the Conclusions) are the solvers "more suitable
for the small Reynolds number regime"? Is this just a question of
spatial resolution?

6. Axis labels on most of the graphs are too small.

7. Figures 5-9 convey no useful information and should be
deleted. Better to use the space to demonstrate convergence properties
in each discretization direction.

8. The authors adopt an eigensystem decomposition approach to solving
their equation set. Why? What alternatives could be brought to bear?
Would it perhaps be better to use singular value decomposition?


