TITLE:        Flow control using bifrequency motion
              
AUTHORS:      Marzouk OA

SUBMITTED TO: Theoret Comput Fluid Dyn

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

2D numerical study of flow past a circular cylinder with imposed
crossflow motion which has either one harmonic or two (first +
third). Fundamental frequency motion amplitude is fixed at 0.3D.

RECOMMENDATION

The basic idea of the work, that small motion in the 3rd harmonic can
exert a large influence on the flow and in particular the sign of
power transfer between the cylinder and the flow, is interesting and
as far as I know unreported.  However, I feel the manuscript needs
revision, some of it rather major, before it could be accepted, as
outlined in the points below.

POINTS

1. The author has not been careful to motivate the work for the more
general reader. For example, it is not pointed out why one should be
concerned if there is power transfer from the fluid to the cylinder,
or vice versa. A related issue is that in free vibration, various
conditions (for example, low mass ratio) could lead to a greater
contribution of the third harmonic to the cylinder motion, and hence
broaden the potential generality of the results presented here.  (I'm
not sure if this definitely is the case but I think it's a possibility
the author could argue, on the basis of evidence to this effect.)

2. The text is too phenomenological ("changing X varied Y") and does
little to try to explain or broaden interest in the findings, perhaps
by discussing them in light of previous results. Other workers have in
the past examined the influence of single frequency motion on power
transfer, but these results (e.g. Blackburn & Henderson 1999) are not
raised in discussion: they need to be. It could also be interesting to
have discussion of the results in light of recent experiments on
forced and free oscillation published by Morse & Williamson (2009). In
any case the author needs to make a concerted effort to strengthen the
interpretation of results before the manuscript could be accepted.

3. It is rather remarkable that nowhere in the manuscript do we see
any kind of flow visualisation or any attempt to explain findings in
terms of flow physics.  This criticism relates back to point 2
above. The manuscript would be much strengthened by inclusion of this
kind of material.

4. One has to get some way into the manuscript before discovering that
it is a 2D numerical study (or indeed, a numerical study). This should
be mentioned in the abstract or introduction.  There needs to be a
convincing demonstration of spatial and temporal convergence of the
results at the Reynolds number of interest (300), instead of just
relying on a visual comparison made to computations of Zheng & Zhang
at Re=200 (Figure 1). There is very little description of the
numerical method to the extent that we have no idea if the method is
first-order in time, second-order in space, etc. Justification of the
use of 3D simulations at Re=300 is rather weak.  I don't believe that
the previous numerical investigations cited in section 3 did actually
demonstrate that cylinder motion promoted two-dimensionality of the
flow, as the author seeks to imply.
