TITLE:        Optimal disturbances above and upstream of a flat plate with
	      an elliptic leading edge

AUTHORS:      Monokrousos, Brandt, Mavriplis, Henningson

SUBMITTED TO: Theoret Comput Fluid Dyn

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

Effect of localisation of disturbances upstream of a flat plate with a
curved LE is studied via linearised timestepper methods.

RECOMMENDATION

Overall my response is that the paper basically fine and should be
accepted subject to some revision.  Most of the interest here is on
the effect of localising the disturbances upstream of the LE, since
the behaviour of the non-localised cases is similar to the flat-plate
case with no LE. Hence the authors need to pay more attention to the
aspects associated with this localisation.

MAIN POINTS

While the approach used to localise the disturbance is effectively the
same as used in reference 13 (which here has an incomplete author list
as well as two spelling mistakes in the title!), the initial
disturbance is here localised only in 2D (i.e. is applied to a single
spanwise Fourier mode) rather than in 3D as in [13], and this should
be pointed out.

More importantly, I believe the technique used to apply the
localisation constraint here (with a primitive-variable solver) must
be rather different than in [13]. Please give more detail of the
method or refer elsewhere. 

The behaviour of the localised 2D optimals is despatched in \S 4.1.2
with a number of rather vague statements and without a single
supporting figure. Please give more specifics and detail.

I imagine that at some time in their evolution, the outcomes of the
optimal upstream disturbances for any spanwise wavenumber would be
quite similar to the global optimal ICS in nature, and that their
energy growth trajectories would subsequently also be quite
similar. (However, I could be wrong!) I would like to see the authors
take up and expand on this point - it's the main suggestion I have for
improving the manuscript.

One assumes that the nature of how concentrated the divergence-free
disturbance is near the leading edge would be moderately strong
function of Reynolds number, could we have some comment on this?

In \S 4.2.1, para 4: I didn't understand: does choosing a sufficiently
large time horizon eventually give the same ICs as the localised case?
Or not?

OTHER POINTS TO BE ADDRESSED

The leading edge is not strictly elliptic so please change the title
to say "elliptic-type leading edge", or similar.

In \S 2 we are told "The method is equivalent to fiding the leading
eigenpair of the composite direct-adjoint Navier-Stokes solver". I'm
not sure this is formally true once the localisation constraint is
added to (3). Please reconsider, delete, or justify this statement.

Please draw in the displacement thickness in Fig 3.
