TITLE:        Self-excited jet precesssion Strouhal number and its
              influence on turbulent mixing characteristics

AUTHORS:      J. Mi & G. J. Nathan


SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluids and Structures

REVIEW:	      First


SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

This manuscript addresses the non-dimensionalization of cold-flow
results from fluidic precessing jet (FPJ) nozzles, being mostly
concerned with finding appropriate (length, velocity) scales with
which to define jet Strouhal and Reynolds numbers.  The main thrust of
the work appears to be directed at finding a definition of Strouhal
number for the FPJ which is consistent with that for a mechanical
precessing jet (MPJ).  By "consistent" is meant scaling such that the
Strouhal number at which the combusting flows of gas from FPJ switch
from blue to luminous is similar to that for the MPJ -- the "critical"
Strouhal numbers, thus defined, will be comparable.

While the subject material might not lie in what is usually considered
the core area of interest for JFS, it is certainly a highly unsteady
flow that involves interaction of fluids with walls, so could be
considered to fall within its ambit.

MAIN POINTS
-----------

To my mind, the main difficulty with the manuscript is this: why would
one expect that it is the Strouhal number that is the prime
determinant of whether a gas flame from a MPJ is critical, or
sub-critical? Surely the angle which the nozzle makes with the
rotation axis is another important variable? Thus I was at a loss to
understand why the authors were interested in finding appropriate
modified Strouhal numbers for the FPJ in the first place. Why not just
accept that the flows are bound to be geometry-dependent, and go about
parameterizing their Strouhal numbers, and whether the flames produced
are "critical" or not, in terms of a Reynolds number (however defined)
and geometric ratios? I suggest that the authors need to produce a
convincing argument on this point before the manuscript could be
accepted.

On the other hand, the fact that the precession frequency increases
with L/D is interesting. Is it the case though that it reaches an
upper limit in the case of very long tubes (as in the work of Hill et
al.)? Granted that there was scatter in Hill's data, but St=29.4*St1
at L/D=infinity is derived for the present geometries: can this be
included on a dimensionless equivalent of figure 1? Do the authors
have any argument or suggestions as to why St1 should increase with
L/D?

MINOR POINTS
------------

The overall chamber length (L?) in figure 1 was missing a
label. Likewise its biggest diameter (D?).

On figure 4, it would appear that at constant L/D values, St1 for
nozzles with an inserted centre-body is Re-dependent, while those
without (but with sharp-lipped exits) are not. Is this likely to be
linked to the fact that the centre-body is rounded (as shown in figure
1)?  Does the Re-dependence dissappear if the insert is sharp-edged,
or a thin disc?

Most readers would probably be unaware of the flow produced by an
FPJ. A schematic diagram ("cartoon") might be a helpful
addition. Likewise a diagram of an MPJ might be useful.

Refering to figure 5, and the accompanying text, I couldn't see why
St2 was any more useful than St1: they both seem to have a definite
(and equivalently good) relationship to L*. At the end of Section 5,
it is stated that "St2 is at least an order of magnitude higher than
... St1", and that this is demonstrated by figure 5. On the contrary,
figure 5 shows there to be approximately a factor of two difference.

It is not easy for the uninitiated to see structures (or be sure they
see the structures the authors refer to) in figure 7. Again an
accompanying sketch would be helpful.

At the end of Section 6, it is first said that the flame for St2=0.24
is longer and narrower. But in the next sentence it is stated that at
St=0.24 the spreading rate is higher. These remarks seemed to be in
conflict and I was left unsure what was meant.

In Section 7, the authors state they have applied an "analytical
approach" to understanding Strouhal number relationships. Do they mean
a correlation-based approach?
