TITLE:        Method of Mass Lumping for 3D Flow and Heat Transfer Problems

AUTHORS:      K. Murugesan and D.L. Young

SUBMITTED TO: Int. J. Numerical Methods for Heat and Fluid Flow

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

This manuscript presents a new method for computing steady
Navier-Stokes flow using a velocity-vorticity finite method using
false timestepping. The elliptic velocity equation is made parabolic
by including a (false) time dependency. By using diagonal lumping of
the elemental mass matrices, the technique effectively becomes a
matrix-free solution method, and presumably is quite simple to
program. The apparent disadvantage (not stated directly by the
authors) is that the false timesteps employed must be very short in
order to overcome stability problems.

MAIN POINTS
-----------

1. My understanding is that the method is restricted in the size of
false timesteps that can be made, since the timestepping is fully
explicit. At low Reynolds numbers the restriction is presumably from
the diffusive terms, while at high Reynolds numbers the restrictions
presumably are of CFL type. The authors seem to skate around this
issue (for example at the end of Section 3), yet further on (Section
4.1) they state `the present scheme has produced solutions without any
numerical instability'. Surely that is only because the false
timesteps in this case are tiny (0.0001), in order to *avoid*
stability restrictions. The authors need to explicitly state the kinds
of stability restrictions that will be imposed on the false timesteps,
and give this aspect of their method more extensive discussion.

2. I found the fact that the method took 40 minutes to solve a
comparatively small (11x11x11) problem at Re=0.1 rather staggering: no
wonder people go to the trouble of using more advanced timestepping
schemes!  Yet the authors state in their Conclusions that `significant
savings in computational time and computer memory storage are
gained'. As a general statement, surely this is false: yes, the amount
of memory required is probably small, and the amount of computational
time *per timestep* is also small, but the amount of time required to
reach a steady state solution is very likely *much* larger than other
methods. The authors need to go to more trouble to point this out.

3. Regarding test cases: the authors compare to driven cavity
solutions of Stokes flow (Re=0) obtained by the BEM, at Re=0.1 and for
some other published solutions at Re=100 (how much computer time was
required to obtain a steady state solution at Re=100? Possibly it
could be lower than at Re=0.1, owing to less onerous diffusion
restriction on the size of the false timesteps). Now that analytical
3D solutions of the Navier-Stokes problem are available, as for
example below,

@Article{es94,
  author = 	 "C. Ross Ethier and D. A. Steinman",
  title = 	 "Exact Fully 3D {Navier}--{Stokes} Solutions for
		  Benchmarking",
  journal =	 IJNMF,
  year =	 1994,
  volume =	 19,
  pages =	 "369--375"
}

these would seem to be the ideal basis of comparision. I would like to
see the authors demonstrate the spatial convergence properties of
their method by comparison to such an analytical solution. Is the
convergence as expected, or not? Has the mass lumping reduced the
convergence below what one would expect if a consistent mass matrix
were employed?

4. The title should make explicit that the method is specific to
steady-state solutions. The use of 3D is not required: the method
works for any number of spatial dimensions. Suggested title: `Use of
mass lumping for matrix-free finite element solutions of steady flow
and heat transfer problems using a velocity-vorticity formulation'.

MINOR POINTS
------------

5. In the Introduction, the authors refer to a number of alternative
solution methods ('meshless', 'BEM', 'MQ'). Please state what the
acronyms stand for. I think that BEM (boundary element method?), at
least, may only be applied to elliptic problems, and not to the
Navier-Stokes problems.
