TITLE:        Comparison of blood rheological models for physiological
              flow simulation

AUTHORS:      P Neofytou

SUBMITTED TO: Biorheology

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

This is a numerical study of flow in a channel with a moving wall
indentation, at single equivalent Reynolds number and two Strouhal
numbers, for three different generalised Newtonian viscosity models
(in addition to the Newtonian case): power law, Casson, and
Quemada. The numerical method is the SIMPLE finite volume
algorithm. The effects of the different rheology models are observed
qualitatively in terms of flow features as well as quantitatively in
terms of peak wall shear stresses.

MAIN POINTS
-----------

1. The paper is well written and easy to follow, and the motivation is
adequately established.

2. The numerical method, boundary conditions and the spatial (mesh)
convergence of the results appear to be adequately covered. On the
other hand, temporal convergence is not demonstrated, a point that
really should be addressed in any revision.

3. While the results are of some interest in themselves, it is
difficult to form any real idea of what the general consequence of
adopting one rheology model above another is, and why. What would
make this paper far stronger is to attempt to generalise the results
so that we can make conclusions in other situations.

4. Part of the difficulty here is that, owing to the spatially varying
viscosity, it is unclear that the flows are really at an equivalent
Reynolds number. The authors have based their non-dimensionalisation
here on the average viscosity for the upstream conditions, whereas
other choices may be more appropriate. Firstly, it would help to have
a plot that compares the profiles of viscosity in the oncoming flow;
also, we should know the inflow wall shear stresses. Secondly, the
authors could try other choices for their non-dimensionalisation; an
alternative is to use a Reynolds number that is based on the wall
viscosity in the upstream flow. This has recently been indicated as an
appropriate measure in transitional and turbulent non-Newtonian pipe
flows (Rudman, Blackburn, Graham & Pullum, J Non-Newtonian Fluid Mech,
V118). In attempting to generalise the present results, I feel it
would be helpful to be able to compare the results at equivalent
Reynolds numbers based on (at least) these two alternatives.




