TITLE:        A Numerical Study of Flow Past a Cylinder with
	      Cross Flow and Inline Oscillation 

AUTHORS:      M R H Nobari and H Naderan

SUBMITTED TO: Physics of Fluids #03-0107

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

This manuscript describes a 2D ALE finite element study of flow past
an isolated stationary cylinder, and also the effects when the
cylinder is in forced inline or cross flow oscillation. The maximum
Reynolds number is 1000, but the oscillating cylinder results are
mainly for Re=300. Much of the focus is on describing the numerical
method: five text pages are devoted to that, while the results are
covered in six (admittedly, this balance shifts once the figures are
considered).

MAIN POINTS
-----------

1. I'm afraid my assessment is that this work is unsuitable for
publication in Physics of Fluids. Firstly, as outlined above, much of
the focus is on the numerical method, description of which should play
a minor supporting role in a manuscript addressed to this
journal. Secondly, the authors do not identify or pose any question
that their work seeks to resolve. Thirdly, the authors reading and
understanding of the relevant work in the area seems limited -- by
now, this is a very heavily worked area of research, and past work
needs to be covered in both more breadth and depth. For example, it is
now very well established and well known that flow past a stationary
cylinder becomes unstable near Re=190 through the `mode A'
instability. The authors do not touch on this result when discussing
Reynolds numbers for the onset of 3D behaviour. As another example,
they say that Griffin & Ramberg originated the usage 2S and P+S,
whereas my understanding is that this came from the classic paper on
flow past oscillating cylinders by Williamson & Roshko, JFS 1988
(which doesn't rate a mention). I can find another few instances where
the authors seem similarly ill-informed. Finally, the treatment of
results is not covered in sufficient depth: it is not enough to be
told, for example, when lock-in is or is not observed at some point in
parameter space.

2. On the other hand, the numerical work is quite interesting. It
would be useful to have this treatment compared and contrasted with
existing ALE finite element methods in more depth. Perhaps the authors
could consider reworking their manuscript to go into the numerical
aspects in more depth, and direct it to another journal.
