TITLE:        Transient growth in wakes: anti lift-up mechanism and
	      hyperbolic instability

AUTHORS:      Ortiz & Chomaz

SUBMITTED TO: Phys Fluids

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

This work examines the mechanisms for transient growth in 2D wakes,
particuarly addressing the "mode B" type instability associated with
the hyperbolic points. The work is intersting and I particularly liked
the characterisation of the mechanism as "anti-lift-up" although the
present authors didn't apparently invent the nomenclature (nor do they
claim to have). Another attractive feature is a proof (appendix A)
that the optimal intial perturbation for long-time behaviour in a
steady flow is the adjoint mode corresponding to the leading
eigenmode. I agree with the authors that this does not seem to have
been demonstrated elsewhere. (It would be nice to see generalisations
for unsteady flows.)

RECOMMENDATION

Definitely I feel this manuscript should be published in Phys Fluids
although a number of points of detail need to be addressed, as laid
out below.

OTHER POINTS TO BE ADDRESSED

1. There are a fair number of spelling and grammatical
errors. E.g. the spelling of: dimensional, negligible, developing,
origin, discrete, dependency, tedious.  Please use an English spell
check! The most noticable grammatical error is a consistent use of
"times horizon" in place of "time horizons". Please also accept my
apologies for this minor chiding on my part.

2. I ask the authors to carefully check their use of nomenclature for
the present symmetries and their relationship to modes A and B of the
circular cylinder wake.  They have spent most of the space in the
manuscript with the "symmetric mode" which I should say corresponds to
cylinder wake mode B since it is associated with the wake's hyperbolic
points. However on page 2 they say that the cylinder wake mode A is
symmetric and mode B is anti-symmetric. Since in the present system
the wake is steady it is not so straightforward for the reader to
verify the relationships to those as stated by Barkley & Henderson
(where the wake is T-periodic). Please clarify this, and also how the
terms symmetric and anti-symmetric are meant (these are defined w.r.t.
the spatio-temporal symmetries of the base flow).

3. The authors claim (page 6) that the base flow only supports
symmetric and anti-symmetric modes (which will have real growth
rates). This is incomplete, as it has been shown by Marques, Lopez &
Blackburn, Physica D 189 (2004) that for base flows with the present
symmetries, there can also arise (quasiperiodic) travelling wave and
standing wave modes, which have complex growth rates. Since there is
yet no theoretical means to predict which of the various types of
modes (symmetric, anti-symmetric, quasiperiodic) will reach
criticality first in a given flow, one should really check by an
analysis which allows any of these types to arise. It just happens to
have been the case that for the cylinder wake the first two modes to
bifurcate from 2D have real growth rates. Since the authors spend most
of their effort examining the dynmamics of one type of mode, I feel
that this analysis could be omitted, provided it is made clear that
quasiperiodic modes could also arise.

4. Some other minor technical details need to be cleared up.  I think
the authors have solved the problem in a Galilean frame that moves
with the wake, hence the wake flow is steady in this frame (Right?
Please tie this down in the manuscript.). How was the frame velocity
determined? Second, how was \lambda_{2D} as used first on page 4
determined? Third: technically, domain periodicity is not a "boundary
condition"; it just removes some degrees of freedom.

