TITLE:        Measurements of the steady steaming flow around
	      oscillating spheres using 3D particle tracking velocimetry

AUTHORS:      F Otto, EK Riegler & GA Voth

SUBMITTED TO: Physics of Fluids

REVIEW:	      First

The manuscript describes PTV measurements of the 3D flow fields around
oscillating spheres: isolated, in pairs, and for both cases, near a
wall. When there are two spheres, they are of the same diameter, and
they move in phase in the same direction but along axes that are
radially separated. Oscillation amplitudes and Reynolds numbers are
low. Generally this is a short but good piece of work and should be
published. I have some suggested revisions, however:

1. The Introduction is too brief and should explain some of the
physics observed in previous work, perhaps with the aid of simple
diagrams. It is not enough just to say of the previous work that
"there remained puzzling questions...", since this is almost
invariably the case. Better motivation is required: exactly what was
unresolved, and how did the present work seek to address the questions
raised?

2. Generally, the figures, particularly their labels, symbols and
titles, were rather too small. In some cases a legend could be used to
indicate what symbols represent. The two lines in figure 1 should be
explained in the caption in preference to the text.

3. The authors talk about measurements of streaming flow but mostly
they are just talking about the average flow at a single phase. To my
mind, the streaming flow is the temporal average flow. Can the authors
check this and change or revise their terminology?

4. For the Riley line in figure 4, is it only the ordinate value that
has been divided by 50?

5. At the top of page 9, suggest remove the sentence about previous
work by Voth et al. - it is distracting. Or move it, with some more
explanation, into Discussion/Conclusions.

6. Section IV.A.2. Despite the section heading, I suggest it's a good
idea to use "equatorial stagnation point" through the text here and
into the IV.B in order to remind the reader.  2nd-last senetence, page
10: "... stagnation point should extend farther". Farther from what,
and how can a point be extended?

7. In figure 8, again we need to be reminded that the "streaming flow"
shown is only for a single phase point in the motion cycle. A
statement is needed to explain how representative the images are of
the time-average streaming flow. Insufficient to refer the reader to
an online animation.

8. In figure 8 and more so for figure 9, it difficult to interpret the
flow patterns. Suggestion: reflect figure 8 about oscillation axis
(not needed for figure 9), draw in some separatrices, indicate
circulation directions etc., in one half of each panel.

9. I found section IV.C hard to follow. E.g.: "Now near the bottom
wall, the respulsive region extends to r=4a and covers most of the
attractive range." Perhaps some diagrams would help.

10. More attention to hyphenation is suggested: e.g. in Conclusions,
"two particle effects" should be "two-particle effects".


