TITLE:        Flow and solute uptake in a twisting tube

AUTHORS:      R O'Dea & SL Waters

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluid Mechanics

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

The manuscript deals with a low-Reynolds-number analytical solution
for the streaming flow that develops in a tube which has both
oscillatory stretching and twist that increase in linear fashion from
the origin, and which occur in phase. In addition, the solute uptake
from a well-mixed zone at the open end of the tube is modelled. The
methodology follows closely the form of previous results obtained by
the second author (JFM V433, J Biomech V37); the present work contains
the extension to the case where the twist is added to the stretching
motion.

The main concern I have about the content of the manuscript is that as
noted above it represents an incremental addition to previous work by
the second author. The novel feature is the streaming flow induced by
oscillatory twisting motion, but this is shown combined with the
(previously analysed) streaming flow produced by oscillatory
stretching and dilatation. As one indication of this commonality,
figure 2(a) is essentially the same as figure 2, JFM V433, while
figure 4(a) is essentially the same as figure 3, JFM
V433. Understandably perhaps, since the analysis is now sufficiently
general to include both cases. Arguably, more attention should be
focused on the novel streaming flow and its causes, rather than the
combination with the stretching and dilation.  But in general, I
support publication as a fast-track article; the article is well
written, is brief enough, and does present an interesting new result.


MAIN POINTS
-----------

1. It is stated that the flows which can arise from the twisting
motion are "as significant" as those produced by the stretching, but
in quantitative terms that depends on the relative magnitudes of the
two motions, especially as the two sets of streaming flows essentially
oppose one another. The relative importance is quantified by the
parameter \beta, but I would like to see somewhere as simple statement
to say how big \beta is for the azimuthal displacement at the end of
the tube to be as large as the stretching displacement, say for
A=B=1. Also, I think the statement in the abstract should be altered
to read "potentially as significant".

2. The nominal application of the work is stated to be transport
within cardiac arterial vessels. In the cited publications by the
second author, the application was stated to be the transport within
small channels cut into cardiac muscle in a specialised surgical
procedure. The distinction is perhaps not especially significant
except that we are told in para 1, page 2, that the Womersley number
\alpha \approx 0.6, with brief reference to the JFM V433 article. This
is then used to justify the statement that \alpha = order(1) (where is
this used in the analysis?). Some more care needs to be taken here
since \alpha is typically significantly larger than unity in the top
end of the arterial tree.

3. It is not until the Discussion that we find an attempt at a brief
physical description of the cause of the novel streaming flow. I would
have liked to see some more space given to this aspect, and the
physical reason why the two streaming flows are essentially opposed to
one another.

4. The stretching and twisting oscillations are in phase, and it would
not hurt to state this plainly somewhere in the Introduction or
Abstract.  Why has only this case been considered?  What might happen
if the motions are not in phase?

MINOR POINTS
------------

5. The diagram of the geometry in figure 1 suggests a low aspect
ratio, but after (2.2) we are told we are considering a long, thin
tube. I think this could be pointed out in the caption. Why is the
domain shown as 2b long, whereas we are told in the text that the
tube's length is b? What boundary conditions are applied in the axial
direction at z=0?

6. The coordinate \theta is used both to quantify azimuthal angle and
dimensionless concentration in the surrounding medium. It would be
easy to change one of these symbols and reduce the potential for
confusion.

7. There is an error in the title of the reference for Waters 2001.
