TITLE:        Vortex Synchronization Regions in Shedding From
              Oscillating Cylinders

AUTHORS:      FL Ponta & H Aref

SUBMITTED TO: Physics of Fluids

REVIEW:	      First


SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

This work deals describes a 2-parameter model for classification of
the regimes of vortex shedding in flow past oscillating circular
cylinders. Williamson and Roshko (1988, herafter WR) have already
produced a 2-parameter classification map for this classification,
based on the two kinematic parameters A/D (dimensionless cross-flow
oscillation amplitude) and lambda/D (a dimensionless measure of how
far the free-stream flow travels in one cylinder oscillatoin
period). For a full description of the problem, a third parameter
(Reynolds number) is also required, but that was essentially held by
WR to be unimportant over the range of Re investigated in their
original study.

The present work relies heavily on the WR classification map as
a basis for fitting parameters, and also on earlier work by Roshko
(1954) for the Reynolds number dependence of the Strouhal number in
flow past a fixed cylinder. The two new parameters suggested to
replace those of WR are Ld, the dimensionless length of the path
travelled by the cylinder in one oscillation period, and Delta, the
relative deviation of the fixed-cylinder vortex shedding period at the
free-stream Reynolds number compared to that at its peak relative
Reynolds number during the motion cycle. It is Delta that relies on
the earlier curve fit by Roshko.

MAIN POINTS
-----------

1. We already had a 2-parameter map (due to WR), but now the authors
seek to replace it, or supplement it, with another. Why? Arguably in
order to use parameters that aid us in explaining the pairing and
splitting up of the vorticity produced on the cylinder surface into
the observed discrete concentrations. I believe that this is what the
authors are attempting, and I also think that is a worthwhile
goal. What they show in the end is that the (experimentally derived)
A/D vs lambda/D region-boundary curves of WR fall reasonably close to
lines of *constant* values of their new parameters. So that is
encouraging.

2. On the other hand, 

(a) the whole effort is highly speculative;

[For example, on page 7: "We assume that the boundaries of the
different vortex synchronization regions of the radial family are,
somehow, associated with isolines of Delta (e.g. the level of
fluctuation of the shedding frequency marked by the line 0.015
isocline is apparently too high to produce a 2P pattern, which for
reasons we do not fully comprehend is more sensitive to detuning than
P+S)."]

(b) it is based too heavily on the WR map (one has to accept its veracity
in the first place), and to a lesser degree the curve fits produced by
Roshko;

(c) it is not easy to see how the model could reasonably be verified
without a lot more work.  

So, unfortunately, I feel that this work comes under the category of
"interesting speculation", but that this is not sufficient to justify
publication at this stage.

