TITLE:        Effect of blockage on vortex-induced vibrations at low Re

AUTHORS:      Prasanth, Behara, Singh, Kumar & Mittal

SUBMITTED TO: J Fluids & Structures

REVIEW:	      First

The title is a reasonable summary of the paper and it is in general
suitable for publication in JFS. Here are a number of points that
should receive attention in a minor revision:

1. The motivation for the work should be argued more strongly and
   perhaps included in the abstract. What are the likely consequences
   of the findings?

2. On page 9, the authors introduce the nomenclature "C(2S)". Later on
   we may surmise this stands for a wake state that is initially 2S but the
   vortices coalesce downstream. Perhaps C(2S) is already common usage
   in this area but if not, the authors should explain it where they
   first use it.

3. On page 12 in relation to figure 7, we are told that it
   "illustrates the intermittent switching of the vortex shedding
   frequency between the value of a stationary cylinder and the
   structural frequency of the spring mass system". In fact figure 7
   does not do this, since it contains no frequency data directly. (In
   similar situations I have seen that there are two frequencies but
   neither of them is directly related to these two system
   frequencies.) Either the statement should be verified with some
   actual frequency data, or changed to really describe what is seen
   in the figure. Also, the "2S" state here is not what I would call
   2S: it has structures similar to 2S in the near wake but then
   becomes chaotic further downstream.

4. Figures 7(c) and 7(d) seem identical. So do figures 8 (a) and
   (b). Why? Is this a mistake or are the authors seeking to
   illustrate some feature of the flow, and if so, what?

5. In section 5.5, there seems to be no direct reference to figure
   9. Was the reference to figure 4 here an error?

6. This is a minor point, but may I suggest that the writing suffers
   slightly from "punctuation abuse", with too many commas used in
   general. For example, one often finds the construction "for, both,
   the". In this situation the two commas would normally be
   omitted. There are may related instances that could be easily
   fixed.

7. Various captions: "time instant": one of these words is redundant.

