TITLE:        Numerical simulation of vortex-induced vibration of a
              circular cylinder using RANS code with dynamic meshes

AUTHORS:      Z Pan and W Cui

SUBMITTED TO: J Fluids and Structures

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

This is a finite volume 2D RANS study of vortex-induced vibration at a
nominal Reynolds numbers in the range 2000-7000, in particular
compared to the experimental parameters and results of Govardhan and
Williamson (2000). A broadly similar approach was earlier adopted by
Guilmineau and Querty (2004), but with results differing in
detail. While (as for Guilmineau and Querty) the results differ
somewhat to the experiments, they are close enough to be encouraging,
and I believe the authors are probably correct that essentially 2D
models of this kind will eventually form an important component of
prediction of VIV. Therefore I feel the manuscript could be published
in JFS, following some revision.

MAIN POINTS
-----------

Regarding the numerical method and mesh. Firstly, the computational
domain seems quite short in streamwise extent. What size is it in
terms of cylinder diameters? Secondly, detail of the numerical method
used to solve, and the formal spatial accuracy of the finite volume
spatial discretisation is not discussed; it should be briefly
described. Likewise for the time integration in the RANS solver. Is it
fully implicit, or mixed explicit/implicit? How has the temporal, as
well as spatial, convergence of the results been established?  It
would seem that it is not necessary to use a dynamic mesh scheme for
this problem, it would be simpler and cheaper to use use a fixed mesh,
and solve in an accelerating reference frame. So adoption of a dynamic
mesh needs to have some justification. Finally some brief details
regarding the eddy-viscosity model of Wolfshtein (1969) could be
included for completeness.

The paper manuscript could be made shorter and more succinct, and some
of the figures could be omitted or summarised. For example, I don't
feel the time series results of figure 3 add much understanding
compared to what could be given in a few sentences of text. Likewise,
the time series of figure 2: it would be better to extract
coefficients and present them in a single plot as a function of U*.

While the authors are able to broadly reproduce the amplitude and
frequency lockin envelope of the experimental results, the two (upper
and lower) lockin branches do not appear, and instead they are
replaced by a single branch. An important reason for this appears to
be that the 2S (upper) and 2P (lower) wake modes are not
reproduced. This needs to be clearly brought out in the manuscript
although it is evident from examination of figure 7. The authors
should make (textual) comparison to the experimental phase-averaged
PIV results here. The wake structures shown in figure 7 seem to be
very diffuse compared to what might be expected at these Reynolds
number (as should also be brought out in this comparison); probably
this is a significant contributing factor in the method's inability to
distinguish the two experimentally observed branches.

The authors do not mention or compare to the DNS results and matching
experiments presented in Blackburn, Govardhan and Williamson (2001),
JFS V15, 481-488. In particular, that paper showed that at U*
corresponding to the lower-amplitude response branch, 2P mode shedding
was reproduced by the DNS results.

MINOR POINTS
------------

The numerical tags and text axis labels of all graphs (especially
figures 2, 3, and 5) are too small.

There is a number of spelling and grammatical errors. At end of
section 2.2 "these parameters that are in charge of the results" ->
"the parameters". "damping ration" -> "damping ratio". At start of
section 2.3, "it is a crucial part to" -> "it is crucial to". Para 1,
page 8, "conditions besides" -> "conditions including". "delayed. Such
is the reason of hysteresis."  -> "delayed; i.e. hysteresis exists."
Page 9: figure 2(b) is not a "frequency response" in the conventional
sense, so I suggest this be reworded.




