TITLE:        Vortex-induced vibrations of a circular cylinder at low
              Reynolds numbers

AUTHORS:      TK Prasanth and S Mittal

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluid Mechanics

REVIEW:	      Second

In my initial review of the manuscript I rejected it on the basis that
there was too much overlap of material with the two previous papers by
the same senior author:

Singh & Mittal (2005) Vortex-induced oscillations at low Reynolds
numbers: hysteresis and vortex-shedding modes, J Fluids & Structures
20:1085-1104 (JFS05)

Prasanth, Behara, Singh, Kumar & Mittal (2006) Effect of blockage on
vortex-induced vibrations at low Reynolds numbers, J Fluids &
Structures 22:865-876 (JFS06)

Following the lead of the authors I'll call the present manuscript
JFM06S.

Having read the authors' statement on the level of originality of the
present manuscript and re-reading it and the two previous papers, I
still feel that the manuscript should be rejected, or otherwise that
it could be re-considered only after some very heavy revision that
would substantially change it.

The central tenet of this review is: I do not accept that an
examination of the fine detail of blockage effects alone justifies a
JFM manuscript these days.  I would say that once one is aware of the
existence of blockage effects, one adjusts the size of the
computational or experimental domain to overcome the major effects.
That is, unless there is some pressing need in a particular
application to consider blockage effects in more detail, or to
understand their physics (rather than their effects), and no
justification of this kind is offered by the authors.  Additionally,
the same authors have already dealt in some detail with the effect of
blockage on vortex-induced vibration, and for very similar parameter
values (JFS06), so we are already aware there is an effect.

1. The main point is that the degree of overlap of the present
manuscript with that of JFS06 is much too large, to the extent that I
believe most of the detailed material relating to the effect of
blockage should be removed.  Admittedly that does not necessarily
leave much material, and this essentially was the reason I rejected
the manuscript outright the first time around.

In support of this conclusion, first consider this from the abstract
of JFS06 (for m*=10, Re<150):

   A hysteretic behavior of the cylinder response close to the lower
   and upper limits of the synchronization/lock-in region is observed
   for the case with 5% blockage. The flow is associated with a
   different arrangement of vortices in the wake depending on whether
   one is on the "increasing Re" or "decreasing Re" branch. However,
   for the case of 1% blockage the hysteretic behavior is completely
   eliminated near the lower Re range of lock-in. The solutions for 
   the decreasing as well as the increasing Re branch are very
   similar. They are both associated with intermittent switching of
   the structural frequency and the vortex shedding frequency for
   the stationary cylinder. The hysteretic behavior for a range of Re
   close to the upper limit of the lock-in regime is observed for both
   the low and high blockage.

Now from the abstract for JFM06S (for m*=10, Re<200)

    The effect of blockage on free vibrations is investigated. With 5%
    blockage it is observed that the jump from the initial to lower
    branch is hysteretic. The flow is associated with different
    arrangement of vortices in the wake for the "increasing"
    vs. "decreasing" Re. The hysteresis loop becomes smaller with
    blockage and completely disappears for blockage of 2.5% and
    less. For low blockage the hysteresis in the flow is replaced by
    an intermittent switching of modes of vortex shedding. Hysteresis
    is also observed at the high Re end of the synchronization/lockin
    regime. Unlike the one at the lower end, it is found to persist
    for all values of blockage.

I think it's easy to agree that these paragraphs describe essentially
the same physics.

The overlap in the representation of the work as written in the
abstracts carries over to the body of JFM06S, particularly in Section
6. Figure 2 presents much the same material as Figure 9a of JFS06, and
figure 6 is much like Figure 9b, JFS06. Granted there is more detail,
and additional plots are presented here in figures 4 5 and 7, but the
question that comes to me is: why is this detail important? The
central conclusion, that there is a blockage effect on the lower but
not the upper hysteresis, is the same as for JFS06. Once one knows
this, all that seems important is that the blockage be kept below 1%
in the present application. The inclusion of all the other data just
makes the manuscript longer than it need be, and in my view lowers the
potential impact of the authors' work.

So my first suggestion is that the authors cut all the material here
that deals with blockage effects, and deal only with the 1% blockage
case.

2. In comparing free vs. forced vibrations with respect to the 1960s
forced vibration experiments by Koopman, one thing the authors do not
seem to have considered or commented on at all is what to my mind was
one of the more important aspects of the experiments, very evident
from examining his flow visualizations. It was something that Koopman
did not much comment on at the time, but seems more significant now,
especially following Gharib's and Williamson's experiments of the late
1980s. The point is this: I understand that for all the low-amplitude
flows (below the "threshold amplitude") Koopman had slantwise
shedding, while for all flows above synchronization, shedding was
parallel. Hence I believe that the presence of a threshold amplitude
is more associated with the influence of end effects and transition
from slantwise to parallel shedding than anything else. To try to draw
conclusions based on consideration of the "threshold amplitude"
feature of Koopman's experiments when dealing with 2D computations is
essentially pointless speculation, at least until someone re-does the
experiments with more care (or does a good set of 2D computations).

Either the authors could omit their comparisons with Koopman's data
(which essentially means removing figure 8 9 and 10, and most of
section 6.2), or they could point out the detail described above and
leave readers to form their own conclusions about the value of such
comparisons.  If the authors really want to compare 2D free vibration
to 2D forced oscillation, then they could of course compute 2D forced
oscillation data.  Comparisons that rely more on the shape of the
Koopman's envelope rather than on the presence of a "threshold
amplitude" would at least be an improvement on the present text.

3. Regarding Section 6.3, and figure 11, it is well-known that the
nonlinear response of an elastically mounted cylinder in the lock-in
regime is very different from that of a linear mechanical spring-mass
system with an imposed uncoupled sinusoidal force. I don't think the
analysis of section 6.3 adds much to this, or does much to answer the
question the authors pose: "What causes the lock-in to occur at Re
beyond the boundaries predicted by forced vibrations and linear
analysis?". I feel that answering such questions requires a much
deeper physically based analysis than simple examinations of lift
coefficients and frequencies as presented in figure 12. In medical
terminology, such measures relate to symptoms rather than pathology.

So overall, taking points 1-3 above into account, I feel that Section
6 could be removed from the manuscript, or at least substantially
reduced in size.

4. Now to Section 7 (whose title "Vortex shedding modes and
hysteresis" is very similar to that of JFS05). There is some
interesting material here, but again, much of it is too similar to
past material, albeit the computations are at slightly different
parameter values. For example, figure 19, for 5% blockage and Re=81.5,
is very similar to JFS06 figure 5, top 4 panels, although that was
computed at Re=83.  Likewise figure 20 for 1% blockage ad Re=84.1 is
very similar to JFS06, figure 6 at Re=95.  In both instances I believe
that similar points of discussion are made in JFS06 and JFM06S.

Figures 21-24 on mode switching are new, as is the accompanying
textual material of sections 7.3 and 7.4. However, as the authors say
at the beginning of section 7.3, they are essentially providing more
detail about mode switching in the low-blockage case - the fact that
mode switching occurs was dealt with in JFS06. Section 7.4 deals with
hysteresis at the high-Re end of lock-in, but in no great detail.

If one edits out the blockage-related material in Section 7, there
does not seem to be much left other than providing extra detail on
physics that were described in JFS06.

5. Section 8: phase between lift and displacement.  This material is
new (although addressed by many other authors), and could be included
in a revised manuscript.  In fact I would recommend that it could be
expanded to give a more detailed physical explanation for how the
phase shift comes about.  But, as above, I recommend that this is done
at one blockage value, say 1%.  In responding to their own question:
"How does the phase jump take place?" the authors have again I feel
given us symptoms rather than pathology, i.e. a physical understanding
of what is going on.

6. In addition to the above, there are a few minor points:

a. At the end of page 44, the authors say "The present computations
have been carried out with zero structural damping.  Therefore, there
is no net energy transfer per cycle between the fluid and the
oscillator.".  This is only true either for a periodic oscillation or
on average, not "per cycle" in general.

b. In the conclusions (and elsewhere), the authors say things like:
"Two branches of cylinder response are identified: initial and
lower.".  They need to remind us here (as they have in the
introduction) that these branches were identified (and named) by
earlier workers, and give us the details.  Otherwise it is too easy to
conclude that the discovery of these branches can be credited to the
present authors.




