TITLE:        Vortex-induced vibrations of a circular cylinder at low
              Reynolds numbers

AUTHORS:      TK Prasanth and S Mittal

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluid Mechanics

REVIEW:	      Third

The authors have now submitted a revised version of their manuscript
(which I will call JFM06R1) but do not seem to have responded to the
specific points raised in my second review, where in essence I
suggested that in order to merit further consideration, the manuscript
should be considerably shortened by removing material relating to
blockage effects.

My main concerns were with (A) originality, (B) motivation, (C)
length. I still hold these concerns, and would like to see them
substantively addressed in any future response from the authors.

A. Originality. While there may be differences in detail of what is
addressed here compared to Singh & Mittal (2005) and Prasanth et
al. (2006), the overall topic and parameter space of study is still
very much the same as these earlier works. For example, the authors
now (in points 1 and 4 of their covering letter) say that in the
present work, the structural natural frequency f_N is fixed and flow
speed (i.e. Re) is varied, making the present setup closer to what
could be done in physical experiment. Yet, in the abstract to Prasanth
et al. (2006) we read much the same thing: "In the first set of
computations the reduced velocity U^* (=U f_N/D ...) is fixed to 4.92
and the effect of Re is studied", suggesting substantial overlap in
material.  As before, I do not believe that we are given sufficient
new material to justify a separate publication.

B. Motivation. While there may be points of fine detail to resolve, I
come back to the question: why are these things important? The authors
do a poor job of motivating our continued attention on this area. As
per my second review:

    The central tenet of this review is: I do not accept that an
    examination of the fine detail of blockage effects alone justifies
    a JFM manuscript these days.  I would say that once one is aware
    of the existence of blockage effects, one adjusts the size of the
    computational or experimental domain to overcome the major
    effects.  That is, unless there is some pressing need in a
    particular application to consider blockage effects in more
    detail, or to understand their physics (rather than their
    effects), and no justification of this kind is offered by the
    authors.  Additionally, the same authors have already dealt in
    some detail with the effect of blockage on vortex-induced
    vibration, and for very similar parameter values (JFS06), so we
    are already aware there is an effect.

C. Length. I note that in the covering letter that accompanies JFM06R1
the authors claimed to shortened the manuscript in response to advice
from the editor, while in fact the manuscript has become longer: the
page count is up from 54 to 56 pages. Most of the revisions described
in the covering letter relate to addition rather than removal of
material and this is reflected in the expanded page count.

In my second review I raised a number of points that the authors
should address to meet these concerns and I would like to see a these
receive a point-by-point response in reply, as well as a revised and
shorter manuscript.

