TITLE:        Transitions to three-dimensional flows in a cylinder driven
              by oscillations of the sidewall

AUTHORS:      Panades, Marques, Lopez

SUBMITTED TO: J Fluid Mech

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

This is a numerical investigation of stability and slightly
supercritical nonlinear behaviour in a simple fluid-mechanical system
with Z_2 x O(2) spatio-temporal symmetry group. While the fluid
mechanics are somewhat different, this symmetry group is also
possessed by two-dimensional wakes of symmetric bluff bodies such as
the circular, square and diamond prismatic cylinders, and it is from
this linkage that the present study (and its earlier precursors by
this group) derive their wider relevance and interest.

This work is similar in spirit to the slightly earlier paper by
Blackburn & Lopez (2010), in that a cylindrical geometry is adopted so
that full Z_2 x O(2) symmetry can be obtained owing to the lack of end
effects in the spanwise/azimuthal direction, and this carries over in
physically realizable systems (unlike the rectangular cavity studied in
Blackburn & Lopez 2003b). The essentially new feature in the present
work, and that which in my opinion justifies its publication, is that
(unlike the cases studied by Leung et al. 2005 and Blackburn and Lopez
2010), modulated travelling waves can be obtained as a pure state in
the present system - providing an important setting in which this
state of theoretical interest and generality could be studied
experimentally.

RECOMMENDATION

The paper is well written and quite easy to follow. I have a few
suggestions for minor changes as outlined below, but I strongly
recommend publication in JFM and I'm happy for the authors to respond
to my suggestions as they see fit.

POINTS

1. Interesting that the critical curves (figure 3) follow so closely
those for BL 2003b. This strengthens the commonality of the symmetry
group approach, and this could deserve extra commentary.

2. The primary source for figure 4 seems to be Blackburn & Lopez 2003b
(Figure 6a), not Leung et al. 2005.  This figure and the related
commentary, while it should be included somewhere in the manuscript,
seems out of place in the results section and I feel should either be
included in a "Discussion and conclusions" section or in the
Introduction.

3. For people wishing to construct physical experiments to study this
system, it would be useful to give explicitly the dimensionless wall
oscillation amplitude as a function of the other dimensionless
groups. This could be placed after eqns (2.5) or (2.6).

4. Caption to figure 2 should provide the phase points as numerical
values.

5. Page 9, para 2. "unfortunately where" --> "unfortunately were".
