TITLE:        Effect of wake width and shear-layer thickness on the
              Strouhal--Reynolds number relationship for bluff-body wakes

AUTHOR:       FL Ponta

SUBMITTED TO: Physics of Fluids

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

The manuscript promotes a physical rationale to explain some St-Re
relationships for the circular cylinder wake at low Reynolds numbers,
namely St=A+B*Re^(-1/2) (which, with different constant A and B
provides good fits to experimental data for both the 2D regime and the
mode-B dominated regime at Re>260 approx). This form of the
relationship, and constants A and B for these two regimes, was
provided by Williamson and Brown (1998).

The manuscript contains just a small amount of new material.
Essentially the whole argument, and accompanying figures, was used in
the 2004 PRL paper (Ponta & Aref, PRL V93N8), but to justify instead
the relationship St=C+D*Re(-1), proposed by Roshko in 1954. What has
been changed here is more argument as to why the physics could explain
the Re^(-1/2) form of the second term (which does provide a better fit
to the data). A comparison of the manuscripts reveals that starting
from equation (1) through equation (6) and beyond, the present
manuscript is virtually a direct copy of material found from equation
(1) through equation (4) in the PRL *except* that one of the length
scales is now dependent on the boundary layer thickness, which should
scale like Re^(-1/2).

The last main paragraph (starting with "Another important issue")
further proposes, but does not examine in any quantitative fashion,
that one of the length scales (D) could better be replaced with L*, a
measure of the wake width. It finishes with the statement "Adopting L*
instead of l would make both constants in expression (6), ka and kd
(and then St) inversely dependent on L*/D. This result is consistent
with the aforementioned experimental evidence."

1. I found the manuscript interesting and nicely argued (and support
its eventual publication as a Letter), but essentially it is a minor
update of the PRL. Given this incremental approach I would not be too
surprised to later see yet another small article which gives some
evidence in support of the last paragraph about the "other important
issue". I recommend that the author revises the first part of the
paper to considerably shorten it (the bulk of the work has appeared
elsewhere), then supplies the quantitative evidence (of wake widths,
etc) in support of the eventual use of L* instead of D, and restate
the equations in this form.

2. In the captions for figures 1 and 3 it should be made clear that
not only the experimental data, but also the numeric parameters of
the fits, stem from other works. In the caption for figure 2 (the same
as figure 4 of the PRL), we shoud be given the Reynolds number.
