TITLE:        On the influence of inlet velocity profile and secondary
	      flow on pulsatile flow in a model artery with stenosis

AUTHORS:      S Peterson and MW Plesniak

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluid Mechanics

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

The manuscript describes an experimental investigation of pulsatile
flow through a smooth constriction in a pipe of stenosis degree (area
blockage) 75%. The pulsatile flow has a mean flow Reynolds number of
364 and a Womersley number of 4.6. The inflow waveform is a model of
flow in the human common carotid artery, with a peak:mean bulk flow
ratio of 3.91, and no reverse bulk flow occurs during the cycle. Three
inflow conditions are used: (i) nominally axisymmetric flow (ii) flow
passes through a 180-degree bend, radius ratio 7:1 (iii) flow passes
through a tapered porous plug that adds a velocity profile.

Overall the work is interesting and timely, but the manuscript needs
additional material, careful re-consideration (particularly in
relation to the possibility of vortex ring instability and breakup,
see below), and much more careful editing.

MAIN POINTS
-----------

1. The results obtained with axisymmetric inflow should be considered
more closely in the context of stability analysis and DNS provided by
Blackburn & Sherwin (2007), JFM 573. The present case, with a
physiological-type bulk flow waveform is more complicated, but there
seem to be a number of things in that paper that are relevant to the
present work. BS showed there can be (at least) two Floquet-type
global/absolute vortex ring instability mechanisms: vortex tilting and
wavy core (Widnall) instabilities. At large reduced velocity/low
Womersley number, the tilting mechanism was the first to become
unstable with increasing Re, and this would be the case for the
Womersley number employed here. Also at large reduced velocity (or
whenever shear layers that trail the main vortex rings become
sufficiently significant), the shear layers can have large transient
growth/local convective instability, and this can interact with and
promote the global/absolute vortex ring instability. Finally, these
instabilities can lead to a very rapid breakdown of vortex rings
formed at the stenosis throat, to the extent that they propagate as
identifiable rings for at most a few tube diameters downstream of the
end of the stenosis (perhaps less far, as Reynolds numbers increase).

2. So it would be helpful if we can have some more careful examination
of what actually happens in the present flow downstream of the
stenosis, particularly in the case of axisymmetric inflow, but also in
the other cases. We are told (page 13) that the evidence of vortex
ring existence and propagation is presented in the first author's
thesis. I believe we need to see the evidence here; I am uncomfortable
with references to material that most people could find hard to
access. The claim becomes perhaps more difficult to accept once one
realises that vortex rings, unlike bulk-flow average velocity pulses,
may not survive very far downstream of the stenosis. Thus it becomes
important to distinguish between the two, and the authors need to give
careful consideration to this issue right through the
manuscript. Often we are told about the passage of a "vortex ring",
whereas no coherent ring may exist.

3. To me, the irregular high-frequency events shown in the time traces
of figure 8, say at t/T=0.2, are suggestive of a turbulent vortex ring
breakdown. Whereas the oscillations at t/T approx 0.6, x/D<5 which
seem to have a well-defined period, suggest shear-layer rollup. (Are
the time traces presented in figure 8 really "raw"? Or have they had
the phase average removed?)

4. Is (convective) shear-layer rollup observed? Certainly the
vorticity fields presented in figure 9 are suggestive of this, rather
than of primary vortex rings which would tend to be at smaller radii,
and spaced far apart axially. (At the reduced velocity used in the
present work, 27, one expects the primary vortex ring spacing to be at
least of order 27D.) My guess is that none of the concentrations of
vorticity represented in figure 9 is a "primary" vortex ring, but
rather, that they all result from shear-layer instability. This also
leads one to doubt that the results in figure 10 actually represent
primary vortex ring locations.

5. The very large discrepancy between particular and phase-average
centreline velocities that exists even for the undisturbed
axisymmetric inflow case (compare say figures 16 and 17) again
suggests to me that turbulent vortex ring breakdown is involved. And
if there is such a large degree of variability, are the comparisons of
particular instances (say in figures 16 and 25) worth including?

6. Does the flow downstream of the tapered plug insert have secondary
flow, and if so, how much, compared to what is produced by the bend?

MINOR POINTS
------------

7. The Abstract apparently first states that there are two inflow
cases, then that there are three.

8. Either early in the Introduction, or in the Abstract, we should be
told what dimensionless flow quantities are fixed (e.g. mean flow Re,
Womersley number, flow waveform).

9. In the Introduction, bottom of p.3, credit for the analytical
solution of pulsatile flow in a straight, rigid tube is given to
Womersley (1955) whereas my understanding is that this solution was
actually presented much earlier by Sexl (1930). See White's "Viscous
Fluid Flow". (Again as I understand it, Womersley has credit for
extending the analysis to cases where the tube is distensible.)

10. Where is the origin of the coordinate system used by the authors?
According to figure 1 it seems to vary. There should be a clear
statement as to its position, probably in association with equation
(2.1).

11. The authors need to take more care with the distinction between
dimensional and non-dimensional quantities (for example on page 10).

12. Also on page 10, the description of what was done by Holdsworth et
al. and the present authors respectively needs to be untangled.  It
would be helpful to others if the authors could tabulate the Fourier
coefficients of flow waveform used.

13. There needs to be more description of the flow measurement
systems, and of flow measurement techniques.

14. There needs to be more care taken with the labelling of figure 7
and the associated description on page 10. I found the description on
page 10 difficult to follow. In the text, we are told about "troughs",
"peaks", "pulses" (one of which is said to be labelled on figure 7,
but none are), and "ridges", whereas on the figure there appear only
two labelled "ridges". How is "systole" defined?

15. At the end of page 14, we are told about oscillations whose
"frequency varies with Reynolds number". This is confusing because the
mean flow Reynolds number is held fixed through the study. Why not say
the frequency varies with bulk flow speed?

16. What is the significance of the various vertical lines on figure
8?  What are the units of the vertical scales, if any?

17. On page 14 we are told that "As pointed out by Brasseur (1979),
more energetic vortex rings are less impacted by the presence of the
tube wall, which would explain the primary vortex ring propagating
further than the tertiary ring." Again we are presented with material
from a PhD thesis. As most people will not have access to it, I
suggest the authors could briefly explain the physics behind the
statement. Again there is a linkage made between a velocity peak and a
vortex ring, but with little hard evidence. (And: is there a secondary
ring?)

18. What precisely is the orientation of the taper facet? In the text,
the taper is said to be cut at 30 degrees relative to the r/theta
plane, but when I checked the associated figure, the angle seemed to
be more like 45 degrees. So I was doubly unsure: was it 30 or 45
degrees, and if 30, which way was this oriented?

19. Figure 17 shows time series, whereas the text says it shows
profiles.
