TITLE:        Numerical investigation of two dimensional flow past
	      a cylinder subjected to streamwise harmonic forcing

AUTHORS:      Rodriguez and Mureithi

SUBMITTED TO: J Fluid and Structures

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATTER

The subject matter and the method of investigation are much as
outlined in the title. The investigation is carried out at Re=1000,
and for a single frequency of streamwise oscillation - the frequency
of two-dimensional vortex shedding for the fixed cylinder, i.e. half
the frequency of oscillation of the streamwise component of force. The
amplitude of oscillation is varied up to 0.4 diameters. There are four
distinct regimes of wake behaviour noted, and these are detailed
by examining timeseries of forces, vorticity contours, and a
1D-time/1D space POD technique.

OVERALL ASSESSMENT

The manuscript is interesting, generally well-written, and could be
published in JFS after some revision.  The main thing the manuscript
lacks to my mind is a clear statement of motivation and plan, which
should probably be included in the Introduction. For example, why was
a frequency of streamwise oscillation chosen the same as the vortex
shedding frequency, instead of double (i.e. the frequency of the
inline forces)? Concerning the use of POD, why not use a full 2D mode
shape? What was discovered from the POD that was not already evident
by examining the shape of the wake, and the force timeseries?

QUESTIONS

1. Regarding convergence tests, we need to see some information
relating to the spatial convergence at Re=1000 - I was not convinced
that enough spatial resolution was present. The Strouhal number tends
to be rather insensitive to resolution; can we have information about
convergence of force coefficients, please.

2. At the end of section 2.2, please can we be told which specific
images of van Dyke are appropriate? We should also be referred back to
the original works in question. Related: in figure 5, does the
right-hand edge of the figure coincide with the location of the
outflow boundary?

3. At the start of section 3, we are told that Vr=5, but also that the
imposed oscillation was at the fixed cylinder vortex shedding
frequency, which was earlier stated as occurring with Strouhal number
of 0.239. Therefore the reduced velocity here should be
1/0.239=4.18. From reading the manuscript, I feel that this was surely
the case.

4. A minor point: a few times in the text, we see the phase "massless,
undamped and rigidly oscillating cylinder". Surely "rigidly
oscillating" or "in forced harmonic oscillation" would be better. I
shold say that if one were in fact able to couple the flow to a
massless, undamped (but sprung) cylinder, the result would possibly be
rather different.

5. p5, para 2, line 7: induced -> induced.

6. Equation set (1), p7. "Source term" of what?

7. p9, last line: sensity -> sensitivity.

8. Section 3.2, line 5. Why "consequently"? There is no *logical*
reason why increasing the amplitude of motion should affect the rollup
of shear layers. Some additional connections need to be made here.

9. p14, 7th line from bottom: "the case of Re=10^3" -> "the present
simulation results".

10. p15, final sentence. The authors should confirm that that both
sides of the pitchfork can be reached in their simulations, e.g. by
reflecting a solution field and using it to restart the simulation.

11. p16, para2: "a proper symmetry" -> "a distinct set of
symmetries". 

12. p16, line 1, also para2 and elsewhere: "a regain" ->
"a re-establishment". 

13. Regarding symmetries, I feel the authors should take more care
with their descriptions. In fact the wake itself has a specific kind
of spatio-temporal symmetry (translation in time + reflection in
space), whereas the trajectories of lift vs displacement etc just have
reflection symmetry.

14. It might be helpful for the authors to do a little more to find a
way of summarizing the symmetries of the three peridic states they
found, or finding a shorthand nomenclature for them.
