Title:	      Numerical study of forced convective heat transfer from a 
	      transverse oscillating cylinder in the wake of a stationary
	      cylinder

AUTHORS:      Ren, Shu & Yang

SUBMITTED TO: J Fluid Mech

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

Two-dimensional numerical study of wakes, forces, heat transfer for
two circular cylinders in which the upstream cylinder is fixed and the
downstream one is forced to oscillate.  Only a single Reynolds
number/Prandtl number combination is examined.  The novel feature of
the present work is mainly in regard to heat transfer effects, since
many other researchers have considered fluid-dynamic interactions of
two cylinders in tandem arrangements, and numerical simulations of
this kind of flow have progressed to 3D DNS. Since the temperature
field is a passive scalar, heat transfer is here completely determined
by the fluid-structure interaction (which the authors omit to point
out).

RECOMMENDATION

The manuscript should not be accepted until the authors address the
key issue of convincing us that the numerics are adequate (that the
results are effectively independent of domain size, spatial and
temporal resolution), as outlined in point 1 below.

In order to increase the appeal of the work I recommend that the
authors cover at least one other (higher) Prandtl number (see point 2
below).

Could the authors please also address the other points listed below?

SUGGESTIONS:

1. The numerical method is hardly described (there is no mention of
spatial mesh resolution, time step, domain size, boundary conditions
etc). This makes it basically impossible for other investigators to
compare their own computations to these results, or for the reader to
be confident that the results are definitive.  Nor is there any
validation of the heat transfer calculations. These details need to be
covered, and it is also appropriate to ask that the spatio-temporal
convergence of the computations be demonstrated. Until these very
basic issues are adequately addressed, it is not appropriate to accept
the manuscript.

2. Heat transfer results will depend on Prandtl number, here fixed at
Pr=0.7 (appropriate to air). The authors do not point out this basic
fact, nor do they seek to justify their choice of Pr=0.7.  The
manuscript would be much stronger if the authors could examine the
effect of significantly higher Prandtl numbers (e.g. Pr=7, pure
water). Also the authors need to point out that since the temperature
is a passive scalar, the heat transfer is completely determined by the
fluid mechanics.

3. In the abstract and elsewhere, the authors refer to various flow
regimes such as “vortex suppression”, “critical” and “vortex
formation” regimes, without discussing the characteristics of these
regimes, and without referencing the origins of the nomenclature.
They need to cover both these aspects.

4. Other papers have examined the interaction between a fixed upstream
cylinder and a tandem downstream cylinder that is either in forced or
vortex-induced oscillation. Below is a sampling of some key papers in
this area that the authors have not referenced; at least the last of
these which discusses both 2D and 3D VIV of this arrangement should be
discussed.

(i) Brika, D., Laneville, A., 1999. The flow interaction between a
stationary cylinder and a downstream flexible cylinder. Journal of
Fluids and Structures 13, 579-606.

(ii) Mittal, S., Kumar, V., 2001. Flow-induced oscillations of two
cylinders in tandem and staggered arrangements. Journal of Fluids and
Structures 15, 717-736.

(iii) Jester, W., Kallinderis, Y., 2004. Numerical study of
incompressible flow about transversely oscillating cylinder
pairs. Journal of Offshore Mechanics and Arctic
Engineering—Transactions of the ASME 126, 310-317.

(iv) Papaioannou, G.V., Yue, D.K.P., Triantafyllou, M.S., Karniadakis,
G.E., 2008. On the effect of spacing on the vortex-induced vibrations
of two tandem cylinders. Journal of Fluids and Structures 24, 833-854.

(v) Carmo, B. S.; Sherwin, S. J.; Bearman, P. W.; et al. 2011,
Flow-induced vibration of a circular cylinder subjected to wake
interference at low Reynolds number. Journal of Fluids and Structures
27, 503-522.

5. Various articles are listed in References but not in the text.

6. The authors need to point out that the flow will become unstable to
3D perturbations at some Re not much higher than the value they have
used.
