Preliminary review of manuscript "Large-scale oscillation stablisation
of the boundary layer" by R. Rusk.

1. I believe the manuscript could be submitted - the material seems
sufficiently novel, interesting and significant for JFM - but it
should have extensive restructuring and revision in order to increase
its chances of success. You need to remember that the material is
going to receive the critical attention of other workers in your area,
and also needs to be more tightly structured than a thesis
submission. And, for JFM, there needs to be more emphasis given to the
fluid mechanics aspects, rather than the design and implementation of
the numerical methods.

2. It should be made clear right from the outset (and even in the
abstract) exactly which kinds of travelling waves are being
considered: e.g. they are wall-normal, not in-plane travelling waves.

3. In the Introduction, it seems that various relevant works that are
mentioned later in the manuscript (section 2.1: McLean 1983, De
Angelis et al. 1997 Shen et al. 2003) should be reviewed. You should
more carefully build the case for the relevance of your work, and what
is new about it. 

4. In the Discussion, section 6, there was material concerning
the effects of parametric oscillations on other kinds of flows that
should probably have been at least mentioned first in the Intro.

5. I would suggest a new section or subsection that outlines and maybe
justifies the structure of the remainder of the paper.

6. You need to to give more emphasis to verification of your stability
analysis, and to the resolution used, etc. One way you could do this
is by comparison to existing stability results for the plain Blasius
BL (and this would provide useful comparison data to say Figs. 4, 5
and 6). Also, various remarks are made about resolution etc. in the
Discussion, which are out of place. It might be best to have a new
section that deals with methods, resolution, code verification,
earlier in the manuscript. On the other hand we don't really need to
know about CPU time and memory use, unless especially significant.

7. From the Intro, I got the impression that the work was going to
deal in more depth with spanwise, rather than streamwise travelling
waves, but subsequently in the results there was far more
emphasis/space given to streamwise oscillations. In effect, only
Figure 7 presents results on spanwise oscillations, and there are only
two paragraphs of supporting text. This was probably the most
surprising feature of the whole manuscript. Much more emphasis and
information should be given about the central results, and I think you
need to present more results relating to the spanwise travelling wave
case. What physical explanations can be found for reduced/enhanced
stability?  What do the mode shapes look like, and how do they differ
from the Blasius BL case?

8. A minor point: the neutral stability contours in Figs 4-6 should be
made smoother if possible. Another: a sketch to illustrate the spatial
wave orientations for a few values of alpha and beta might be a good
idea.

