TITLE:        Transient growth mechanisms of low Reynolds number flow
	      over a low pressure turbine blade
              
AUTHORS:      Sharma AS, Abdessemed N, Sherwin SJ & Theofilis V

SUBMITTED TO: Theoret Comput Fluid Dyn

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

Optimal transient growth 2D and 3D in flow over a turbine blade at low Re.

RECOMMENDATION

The manuscript should be accepted subject to revisions that address
point 1 below.  The remaining points can be addressed as the authors
see fit.

POINTS

1. The main point that definitely needs remedy is that the methodology
of computing TG for problems with a time-periodic base flow is not
adequately addressed. This starts with omission in the Introduction of
the fact that the paper by Blackburn Sherwin & Barkley (2008)
introduced the study of transient growth in the case of time-periodic
base flows for general geometries - and that the work described in the
present manuscript basically adopts exactly the same methodology.
Subsequently in Section 2, the time-shifting of the initial
perturbation with respect to the base flow time-base which should
logically be formally described here is also omitted, and so when t_0
is first mentioned in section 3 we have absolutely no idea what that
means until this is briefly addressed, seemingly in retrospect, at the
end of page 7.  A related issue which will be addressed by these
changes is the remark at the end of para. 1, section 2, regarding the
phase of the initial condition "as defined in the previous section" -
as the authors will be able to refer to a specific equation; also they
need to state that this starting phase is arbitrary here and not tied
to any rotational phase.

2. I suggest that the authors slightly revise their description of how
the problem is non-dimensionalised at the top of section 2. It seems
better to state that the problem is non-dimensionalised using the
chord $c$ (*see point 6 below*) as a length scale and the free-stream
speed $U_\infty$ as a velocity scale, and then also formally state
that the time-scale is $c/U_\infty$.  I suggest this because the
consideration of time is central in the problem.

3. While the base state is time-periodic owing to vortex shedding, in
this problem where $T$ is selected autonomously (which is different to
the case in BSB08) it would be interesting to examine transients
computed with respect to a steady base flow. If this is difficult I
suggest the authors at least point this out as a possibility.

4. I thought the introduction of equations (2) was un-necessary as
they are exactly the same as equations (1). Why not just propose
u=U+u', p=P+p'?

5. In section 2, I suggest subheadings on page 4 to more clearly
distinguish stability and transient growth analysis.

6. Figure 1 could be placed sooner or augmented with a sketch to help
define and orient the reader to the problem.  When examining the scale
used in figure 1, the conventional blade chord I measured is longer
than 1 - I suggest the authors mean that $c$ is the blade pitch, not
chord (in section 2 they give $c$ as the 'axial blade chord').

7. Caption to figure 5: "first and second" --> "leading and
sub-dominant". Perhaps the authors could refer back to the discussion
of these in BBS08/BFS here.

8. Figure 11. Suggest 2D in place or in addition to $\beta=0$.
