TITLE:        Vortex breakdown in a cylinder with a rotating
              bottom and a free surface
              
AUTHORS:      E. Serre and P. Bontoux

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluid Mechanics

REVIEW:	      First

SUMMARY
-------

The manuscript describes a DNS study of flow in a cylindrical cavity,
which is driven by one rotating wall.  While flows in this geometry
have by now received a great deal of study, the novel feature here is
the addition of a simulated free surface.  The study is for a single
cavity aspect ratio, H/R=4, and the varied parameter is the other
dimensionless group, the Reynolds number, the range for which is
2500--4500, with increments of approximately 100.  The two main points
of focus in the results are the onset of axial vortex breakdown flows
at the lower end of the Reynolds number range, and the onset of
three-dimensional flows for Re>3600. In fact, the onset of
three-dimensionalty appears to be the main new feature of this work,
as the appearance of vortex breakdown in the free-surface case has
been studied numerically in the axisymmetric simulations of Brons et
al. (JFM 428 2001).

I believe the material is sufficiently novel and interesting to
justify eventual publication in JFM. However I also believe the
manuscript requires further work before it is acceptable, and that the
onset of three-dimensional flow in particular needs more detailed
investigation.

MAIN POINTS
-----------

1. In the fully-enclosed lid-driven cavity flow, the flow can
   bifurcate from steady to periodic behaviour with increasing
   Reynolds number either to axisymmetric limits cycles (in the range
   1.6<H/R<2.8) or to rotating waves, as demonstrated in the stability
   analysis of Gelfgat et al. (JFM 438 2001 -- this work should be
   both referenced and discussed, even though it goes only up to
   H/R=3.5).  In these flows, at high aspect ratios, it appears to be
   the case that rotating waves first appear with a single wave-number
   (say 4 or 5) in the unsteady wall-jet flow well away from the axis,
   followed, with increasing Reynolds number, by a secondary
   bifurcations which cause precession of the axial vortex breakdown,
   typically at k=1 (Marques & Lopez PoF 13(6), 2001 -- while this
   work is referenced it needs more detailed discussion). It would
   seem quite possible that similar behaviour could arise in the
   present flow configuration, on the basis of what we see in the time
   series of Figure 6(c): mode 3 goes unstable first (with a RW),
   followed by mode 1 (with a core precession), then mode 2. So
   failing a stability analysis of the steady flow states, I believe
   that to make the work publishable we need to see a more detailed
   parametric investigation of the bifurcations that arise near the
   onset of RW flows, probably in the Re range 3600-3700, with finer
   increments in Reynolds number. Given the detailed investigations
   that have now been published for the enclosed flow system (such as
   the works quoted above, Blackburn & Lopez JFM 465 2002, and of
   course Serre & Bontoux JFM 459 2002), it is now unsatisfying, and
   surprising, to be told in the Abstract that "there is a direct
   transition from a steady state to a chaotic temporal
   regime". Despite the cost of the simulations, this topic needs much
   more detailed treatment, investigation and discussion in order to
   make the work acceptable for publication.

2. In the Introduction (p.2, end of para.3) the authors state that
   "the origin and mechanism of the symmetry breaking has not been
   completely elucidated" for the fully-enclosed flow. While it is
   true that all the details have not been explained, there is scant
   discussion of the work that has taken place on this topic: for
   example Gelfgat et al., Marques & Lopez, Serre and Bontoux, all
   mentioned above, and the work of Blackburn (PoF 14(11) 2002), where
   it is suggested that RWs arise through an inflectional instability
   of the wall-jet flow produced near the cylindrical walls by the
   deflection of the Ekman layer that grows on the rotating wall (as
   opposed to a purely centrifugal instability). Given the quite
   likely close connection between the instabilities of the
   fully-enclosed flow and the present flow, these previous
   investigations deserve more detailed discussion.

3. The issue of how well the "free-surface" type BCs employed in
   numerical simulations actually model true free-surface conditions
   is a complex one, but it is possible for the numerical conditions
   employed to impose "hidden symmetries", not present in the real
   world, leading to spurious solution branches. The authors might
   like to review Crawford, Gollub and Lane (Nonlinearity 6, 1993), on
   this topic.  Also, it was not made clear what type of pressure BCs
   were applied (and not just at the free surface).  My understanding
   of the numerical method employed suggests that pressure BCs are
   needed -- please can we know what they are? What conditions are
   imposed on velocity on the axis? While the velocity BCs are
   undoubtedly discussed in Serre & Pulicani 2001, a little more
   detail in the present manucsript would not go astray.

MINOR POINTS
------------

4. In the Introduction (p.2, para.6), we are told that "studies of
   rotating flows in containers with a free surface are scarce". This
   is true, but the authors would probably now also like to discuss
   the recent work of Hirsa, Lopez & Miraghie (PoF 14(6), 2002) on
   symmetry breaking to rotating waves in these flows (albeit with
   H/R=2).

5. In the Introduction (last para, p.2), we are told that on the basis
   of Escudier's work (1984), the transition to time-dependent flow is
   expected to be three-dimensional for H/R>3.1. I think the authors
   should here refer to the more recent work of Gelfgat et al, 2001,
   whose stability analysis shows this to be the case for H/R>2.8.

6. It was not clear how simulations were restarted as Reynolds numbers
   were increased.  From rest?  From a lower Reynolds number result?
   Were 3D perturbations added?

7. The authors describe the discrete spectral energies in mode k by an
   equation at the top of p.5 (the equation is not numbered).
   However, this equation describes an approximation to the discrete
   energies.  A more accurate approach would be to incorporate the
   radius and Gauss-Lobatto weights into the summation; whether any
   new qualitative information would be gained by this increased
   effort is arguable.  The point is that the equation expresses some
   approximate measure that is related to the true values in an
   imprecise way: the authors could describe E_k as an approximate
   measure of the discrete spectral energies.

8. The material in the last paragraph of p.5, leading to the
   introduction if the simplified swirl parameter S would in my
   opinion be better placed in the Introduction.  Some discussion of
   the physical significance of S would be helpful.

9. In the opening sentence of para.2, 5.1, the authors refer to the
   "upper disk" being impulsively started. Do they mean the rotating
   endwall (which is at the "bottom" of their container)?

10. The manuscript contains a large number of (mostly minor) spelling
    and grammatical errors -- while no doubt these would be caught at
    the proof stage, their presence is a little distracting and
    occasionally confusing.

11. Figure 2(b): the ordinate is given as w: should it not be S?

12. Figure 7: what are the contours of? What is the orientation of the
    panels (which is the free surface, where is the axis)? Do we see
    instantaneos or time-average contours?

13. Figure 12: is this a sequence of images at different times? If so,
    what is the dimensionless time increment between each image?
