TITLE:        Vortex breakdown in a cylinder with a rotating
              bottom and a free surface
              
AUTHORS:      E. Serre and P. Bontoux

SUBMITTED TO: Physics of Fluids

REVIEW:	      First

SUMMARY
-------

I have to state at the outset that I reviewed a manuscript of the same
title and by the same authors for another journal in 2002.  Obviously
while the manuscript must ultimately have been rejected, the authors
have taken into account some of the feedback they had at that point,
as additional simulations have been performed, and work has been done
to the manuscript.  I still believe (as I did then) that the
manuscript could be published, but I still (as then) believe it needs
further work.  However, there have been new papers in the intervening
period.  The most relevant of these is that by Lopez at al., JFM 502,
(2004), examining instability in a similar (different aspect ratio)
free-surface system, and so the issue of relevance needs to be
carefully examined, i.e., does the new manuscript provide us with
sufficient new information to justify publication?

The manuscript describes a DNS study of flow in a cylindrical cavity,
which is driven by one rotating wall.  While flows in this geometry
have by now received a great deal of study, the novel feature here is
the addition of a simulated free surface.  The study is for a single
cavity aspect ratio, \Lambda=H/R=4, and the varied parameter is the other
dimensionless group, the Reynolds number, the range for which is
2200-3150.  The two main points of focus in the results are the onset
of axial vortex breakdown flows at the lower end of the Reynolds
number range, and the onset of three-dimensional flows for
Re>2950. The flow first becomes unstable to a k=3 rotating wave (RW)
located towards the cylindrical outer wall, then additionally a k=1 RW
associated with precession of the vortex core, followed with still
further increase in Re by another k=2 RW in the core (all three are
incommensurate).

I feel the manuscript needs rework to make it shorter, to concentrate
on and better characterise the RW instabilities, and needs to give
more sophisticated treatment to the issue and effects of hidden
symmetry that is implied by the adoption of a flat, free-slip upper
boundary.

MAIN POINTS
-----------

1. I have some difficulty understanding the basic simulation
   methodology leading to the non-axisymmetric state at
   Re=3000. Leading up to this, the simulation set starts at Re=2200
   *from rest*.  Firstly it is stated (in VI.A) that after an
   impulsive start, all non-axisymmetric modes decayed until their
   energies, k.ne.0, reached machine noise levels. This seems
   peculiar, since we have a fully spectral method with Fourier
   expansions in azimuth: in such a method, if the initial condition
   is axisymmetric (and a rest state is so), then solutions at all
   time should remain axisymmetric since the BCs and the problem have
   rotational symmetry (all the energy is in the k=0 mode), and there
   is no mechanism in the nonlinear terms to generate or transfer
   energy to the higher modes. This can be readily demonstrated with
   the convolution theorem. So it doesn't make sense to me that there
   was ever any energy in the k.ne.0 modes. Secondly, the same
   considerations carry over to the investigation of the onset of
   symmetry breaking. One should be able to increase the Reynolds
   number indefinitely without loss of axisymmetry, provided modes
   k.ne.0 are initialised with zero energy. An appropriate technique
   to examine symmetry breaking is to put some small amount of energy
   in say the k=1 mode and see if the solution returns to axisymmetry
   or not.  So this makes me wonder how good their characterisation of
   the onset of RWs "in the Re range [2950,3000]" actually is.  (And
   certainly this aspect of the manuscript has changed already, as the
   result of further work, compared to the 2002 offering.)  I would
   have thought the appropriate way to proceed is to decrease Re from
   3000 in small steps (say Re=10) and plot the energy level in the
   k=3 mode vs Re (in the process establishing if the bifurcation is
   sub- or supercritical).

2. In VI.C, the primary bifurcation to a k=3 RW associated with
   instability of the confined jet, followed by secondary k=1 RW
   associated with the vortex core seems very similar to what was
   reported for the fully enclosed case, \Lambda=3, by Lopez and
   Marques, PF V13, (2001), which had k=4, then k=1.  The authors seem
   to have missed this point.

3. For the fully-enclosed case, the authors state in the Introduction
   that the symmetry breaking to RWs was attributed by Blackburn &
   Lopez (PF V12, 2000) and Lopez & Marques (PF 13, 2001) to "an
   inflectional instability of the swirling jet produced by the the
   turn of the Ekman layer on the stationary vertical sidewall. This
   result looks to be confirm [sic] by a recent stability analysis
   (ref 14) ...".  In fact, it is only in [14] that any direct
   reference was made to an inflectional instability of the swirling
   jet: there was no mention of mechanism in Blackburn & Lopez (2000),
   and in Lopez & Marques (2001), the instability mechanism was
   suggested to be centrifugal, not related to an inflectional
   instability.

4. The issue of hidden symmetry (produced by the reflection-symmetric
   upper surface) needs to be more carefully dealt with, particularly
   in light of the findings of Lopez et al. (2004).  They showed that
   while at \Lambda=2 the primary bifurcations are not affected by
   using constrained symmetry, some of the subsequent ones (k=1) are,
   and are suppressed by using the kind of upper boundary condition
   used in the present work.  So while it is probably reasonable to
   assume (as the authors do) that here at \Lambda=4 the hidden
   symmetry does not affect the primary bifurcation, either more care
   has to be taken in warning the reader about the possible influence
   on subsequent bifurcations, or, better, to actually check the
   effect of relax the reflection symmetry free surface.  Naturally
   the latter path implies rather more work, however, I feel that it
   would strengthen the manuscript considerably.

5. The manuscript is too long.  I would suggest removing some
   material, principally that connected with the detailed
   characterisation of vortex breakdown in the axisymmetric case
   (which seems to agree well with previous work), and concentrating
   focus on the symmetry breaking.  In this regard, much of the
   discussion in the beginning of the Introduction concerning
   Lagrangian "asymmetry" of the vortex breakdown flow before the
   onset of symmetry breaking misses the points that (a) these
   manifestations are extremely sensitive to initial conditions and
   imperfections in the experimental examinations, and (b) the
   numerical work in this area by Soritopoulos and Ventikos is flawed
   by broken mesh symmetry.  I think also the material (VI.D) on the
   flow when a free-slip cylinder wall is employed could also be
   removed.

MINOR POINTS
------------

6. Figure 9 needs axis labels and the numeric tags/labels are far too
   small.
