TITLE:        A cut-cell solver of the Phi-omega equations for low
              Reynolds number 2-D flow past stationary and moving bodies.

AUTHORS:      TJ Stallard, AGL Borthwick and PH Taylor

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluids and Structures

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

The manuscript describes a finite volume cut-cell/quadtree method for
discretizing 2D flow past moving or fixed bodies, and then applies it
to flow past moving/oscillating cylinders. i.e. flows that can be
computed also with a fixed body, but with time-varying far-field
conditions. One potential advantage of the method, when compared to
alternative methods, is that in principle it could deal with an
arbitrary number of bodies which could move relative to one
another. Also, the method is possibly computationally cheaper than
some alternative methods. (I would have to say though that the authors
do not seem to have dealt with, or demonstrated, these possible
advantages.)

POINTS
------

1. Considering the results given at the resolutions presented, the
method does not seem particularly accurate at higher Reynolds numbers,
even for fixed cylinders (see e.g. Table 1 and Re=500 results in Table
2), and accuracy falls off when cylinder motion is
introduced. Consequently it is hard to see why one would wish to use
the method, unless it was on the basis that it could be used to tackle
a problem that would be difficult by more conventional means.

2. The manuscript principally deals with the computational method and
validation rather than with new flow physics or results related to
fluid-structure interaction.

3. Inspecting Figure 11 and also considering the remarks made on page
26, one wonders if the degradation in solution accuracy in cases where
the cylinder moves is related largely to the fact that "the mesh
solely adapts due to boundary motion and solution based adaptation is
not conducted". The authors do not seem to have considered this issue.

4. As a very minor point, I feel sure that when the authors referred
to a paper by Blackburn and Melbourne they in fact meant to refer to
the 1999 paper by Blackburn & Henderson.

ASSESSMENT
----------

While there are a number of less significant considerations, taken
together the above points are sufficient for me to recommend that the
manuscript not be accepted by JFS in its present form.  In order to
gain acceptance the authors could demonstrate application of the
method to a problem (such as a multi-body one) that would be difficult
to compute in other ways, more convincingly show good convergence at
moderate Reynolds numbers, or minimal degradation in accuracy when
body motion is introduced.
