TITLE:        Sloshing and slamming oscillations in collapsible
              channel flow

AUTHORS:      Stewart, Heil, Waters and Jensen

SUBMITTED TO: J Fluid Mech

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

A 2D study of behaviours in an analogue of the Starling resistor using
2D DNS and synthetic approximations to global modes.

RECOMMENDATION

The manuscript is well written and seems almost free of errors.  Its
overlap with other recent publications by this group on other aspects
of this same problem is minimal. I recommend the work be accepted
for publication, but I would like to see the following points
addressed.

POINTS

1. The geometry studied is fairly specific (it seems to match previous
studies by various of the authors) and there didn't seem to be much
comment about why the various relative lengths were chosen or how much
influence that might have on the genericity of the results.

2. The supplied animation was useful (though why was it nearly 40MB?) and
(a) should have been mentioned earlier, e.g. in the abstract and (b)
could usefully be accompanied by an animation of a sloshing
oscillation, as well.

3. Granted it is interesting to see the synthetic approach does a
fairly reasonable job of modal analysis at moderate to high values of
T, but why was this approach adopted? Why can't one just do a full
global mode analysis? Please provide some commentary as to how good
the method is at low values of T (e.g. T=21 used in section 5), -- I
imagine it could have difficulties, given the results presented in
table 1 for T=100.

4. In section 4.2 in regard to figure 5(a) we are told "... the
wavenumbers of three of the hydrodynamic modes form a triad that is
almost symmetric about the axis Re(k) = 0 ...".  I didn't see
this. Also in regard to figure 5 caption there should be some
explanation of the various unlabelled lines.

5. Caption to figure 7 should start "Evolution of the membrane midpoint
..." rather than "Evolution of the channel midpoint ...".

6. Under the conditions of large-amplitude slamming oscillations in
figure 7, how reasonable is the model assumption of linearized
curvature in (2.7)?
