TITLE:        Two-dimensional numerical simulation of oscillating
	      cylinder in a mean flow at low Keulegan-Carpenter and
	      beta numbers

AUTHORS:      H. Soufi, D. Nehari, H. Adjlout and O Imine

SUBMITTED TO: Progress in Computational Fluid Dynamics

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

This is a two-dimensional study of flow over an oscillating cylinder,
essentially all for Keulegan-Carpenter number KC=6, frequency
parameter beta=35. The novel factor is the introduction also of a
steady current, whose value ranges from Ur=steady flow speed/peak
cylinder speed=0--0.35. In the present study, the steady current is
only aligned with the cylinder oscillation direction, although the
orientation could be arbitrary (giving another dimensionless
parameter). From an applications viewpoint, the potential influence of
steady current on hydrodynamic forces (especially, hydrodynamic
damping, given by Cd) is quite important.  It is interesting that the
presence of a steady current here seems able to produce lockin for a
state that is chaotic in the absence of a current.

MAIN POINTS
-----------

1. While the methodology and so on seems adequate, and the central
result is interesting, I do not believe enough new material is
presented here to justify a journal paper -- the authors have used the
numerical technique before, for example, and there is not enough
attention paid to the flow physics. Obviously as there are now four
dimensionless groups, even for 2D simulations, a full numerical study
(even over a fairly restricted parameter space) could be prohibitively
expensive, so it is reasonable to restrict at least the direction of
the steady flow (but why to the inline case?). For example, a more
interesting and complete study would, at this beta value, track up
from regime A, through regime C, into E, examining how the presence of
the current influences hydrodynamic damping. Another option would be
to give a fuller examination, or even better, physical explanation, of
how lockin is produced at this point in (KC, beta) space by adding a
steady current. There is only a single paragraph that briefly
addresses this phenomenon. What happens to the mean transversal force
during lockin?

MINOR POINTS
------------

2. Do we ever have complete lock-in (periodic flow) here? Even for
Figure 7(b--d) there seem to be minor non-periodic fluctuations of
force coefficients. The best way to tell definitively a 'phase-plane'
plot of Fx vs Fy over a complete cycle, say at Nc=90: this is much
more sensitive than spectral analysis.

3. In the PDF version I have, some of the figures (4 and 11, although
the caption for the latter says it is figure 8!) wrapped over the ends
of the page and would not print out.  The caption to figure 10 seems
to have a reminder note to the authors (in French) still included. In
the caption to figure 5, I'm sure the solid lines should relate to the
computations and the squares the experimental results. Were the
experiments of Dutsch et al. displayed here at KC=4 (as used in the
previous comparisons) or KC=5?

4. In the abstract, the authors refer to their numerical method as
pseudo-spectral, whereas it is a hybrid finite-difference/spectral (or
finite difference/pseudo-spectral), method.
