TITLE:        Two-dimensional numerical simulation of oscillating
	      cylinder in a mean flow at low Keulegan-Carpenter and
	      beta numbers

AUTHORS:      H. Soufi, D. Nehari, H. Adjlout and O Imine

SUBMITTED TO: Progress in Computational Fluid Dynamics

REVIEW:	      Second

This version of the manuscript is better than the 2007 original in
that more material has been included to the point the manuscript
could be considered for publication, but it needs a lot of (mostly
relatively minor) revisions to bring it to publishable quality.

1. The standard of English used is not yet acceptable.  I suggest the
authors do a very thorough job of raising the level in any subsequent
submission.  While I do not wish to appear unsympathetic, I'm afraid I
do not have time to act as their proof reader and do not intend to
provide a sentence-by-sentence analysis.

2. References: the authors have been inconsistent in their
referencing.  Many of the new references are only referred to by the
name of the first author, while the typical usage is: both authors'
names if there are two, and Author et al. if there are three or more
authors.  I suggest the present authors carefully read an issue of
PCFD to pick up the house style, and adopt it.  In the very first (and
many subsequent) references to Tatsuno & Bearman's 1990 paper, the
date is omitted - then finally when it is supplied for the first time,
it is wrong (Tatsuno & Bearman 1988, see page 6).

3. There is no discussion of what Tatsuno & Bearman's map actually
shows - the authors seem to assume that all the readers will know what
it is.  At least a brief explanation is required in the Introduction.
In relation to that map, the authors need now also to refer to Elston
et al. JFM V550 2006 where the initial instability boundaries of
Tatsuno & Bearman's map were shown to be explicable through linear
analysis, and that that work also showed that when the flow breaks
symmetry it is also almost invariably three-dimensional (while the
present study is two-dimensional).

4. In the Introduction, the authors tell us what the Stokes number
does not depend on the amplitude of oscillation. They need to tell us
however what it *does* depend on (that it represents the frequency of
oscillation in dimensionless terms).  Also, Um is said to indicate the
amplitude of cylinder motion whereas it represents the amplitude of
cylinder oscillation velocity.

5. Morison's coefficients are never defined; they need to be.
