TITLE:        Wake modes of rotationally oscillating cylinders at low Re

AUTHORS:      Sellappan, Pottebaum

SUBMITTED TO: J Fluids Struct

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

2D PIV study of wake modes of a rotationally oscillating cylinder in
crossflow at Re=150.

RECOMMENDATION

The manuscript requires substantial revision, especially in relation
to points 3 and 4  below.

MAIN POINTS

1. Abstract: What are the key new findings (other than the finding of
some "previously unknown wake modes"), and what makes these
significant?

2. Introduction: Motivation for the work is poorly established. Why is it
important to study this problem, especially as it has received a
reasonable amount of previous study?

3. In the Introduction the authors state "Both studies [Mafouz & Badr
2000 and Lee & Lee 2006] focused on spectral analysis and did not
include any pertinent information about the overall wake
structure". This is false: Mafouz & Badr did indeed present quite a
lot of information about wake structures -- FOUR figures in that paper
show streamlines and vorticity contours of various 2D wake modes. It
beggars belief that the present authors were unaware of this.  The
authors need to revise this statement, and to provide adequate
discussion of their flow structure results in relation to those of
Mafouz & Badr, where they overlap.

4. It seems to be assumed (on the basis of cross-flow Re) that the wake
structures observed are all 2D.  This is not necessarily so, and the
authors need to tell us how they have checked this point.


OTHER POINTS TO BE ADDRESSED

5. Since only a single Reynolds number is examined, change the title from
"... low Re" to "Re=150".

6. What are the end conditions for the cylinder?  How has nominal
two-dimensionality of the near wake (as opposed to possible
three-dimensionality of wake structure) been confirmed?

7. What is the turbulence level in the water tunnel? The statement made
about flow speed could apply either to the repeatability of the mean
flow speed, or turbulence intensity.

8. What is the peak ratio of cylinder peripheral speed to freestream speed?


