TITLE:        On the subcritical bifurcation at the onset of
	      three-dimensionality in the cylinder wake.
              
AUTHORS:      Tanvir, Bouchet & Dusek

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluid Mechanics

REVIEW:	      Second

The authors have made various minor alterations to the manuscript in
response to my previous review.  I am still unable to accept this
manuscript, and as before, principally owing to difficulties with the
numerical techniques employed. This is frustrating for me, and I am
sure it will be for the authors as well, because I do not have much
difficulty accepting the central thrust of its findings and think that
they are reasonably interesting.  However, (as I said in the previous
review) there is a fundamental formulation problem which remains
unaltered, and I do not believe the quality of the work as it
presently stands (or is liable to stand without root-and-branch change
and a great deal of further revision besides) justifies publication in
the Journal of Fluid Mechanics. I will lay out these issues more fully
in point 1 below.

Besides this there are a number of more minor matters which are more
easily remedied, but are relevant to the matter of the overall quality
of the work. These issues are dealt with in points 2-8 below.

1. The most basic issue that brings me to the same recommendation I
made in my previous review remains: that the authors have used a
cylindrical coordinate discretization to investigate a problem that
they have defined in a Cartesian geometry - instability of flow past a
circular cylinder.  They have investigated the instability of flow
past a ring, rather than past a straight circular cylinder.  

While in the current version of the manuscript, the authors do now
define the aspect ratio (as Ar=D/d), its numerical value is no longer
supplied; no doubt this was an unintended omission.  Presumably its
value is the same as in the previous iteration: Ar=500. Like the
authors, I feel rather confident that this is sufficiently large that
the results are liable to well represent the situation for the
Cartesian case.  The difficulty is that they never conclusively
demonstrate this to be the case, nor do they carefully enough address
the issue in order to explain the difficulties to the reader, which
are that the symmetry group of axisymmetric flow past a ring is
different to that to 2D flow past an infinite straight cylinder, and
that the quantitative (and some qualitative) effects of variation in
ring aspect ratio on wake instability are not yet conclusively
established. The statement that they attribute to Blackburn & Lopez
(2003) on page 6 in fact comes from Blackburn, Marques & Lopez (2005)
and is used out of context, since in that paper it was used to support
an explanation as to why the subharmonic instability mode (mode C) is
not observable in the infinite-aspect-ratio limit, and in effect was
making a point in opposition to the authors' argument (see also point
4 below).

In their rejoinder to my previous review, the authors state that they
were easily enough able to make code modifications to obtain a
Cartesian-coordinate solver from their cylindrical-coordinate one and
were able to spot-check instances of their nonlinear subspace
calculations (at least, that is what I presume they mean since what
they say is rather vague) and found no detectable difference to the
Ar=500 case. In the manuscript however, they do not state that this
testing was done, but rather have made statements at the top of page 7
that may allow the reader to conclude that they have used a Cartesian
coordinate formulation for the whole work, and then have not presented
details of any cross checking alluded to in their rejoinder.

I feel the attitude of the authors on the matter may be summed up by
this phrase taken from the second sentence on page 7: "To avoid the
necessity of discussing the approximation of a straight cylinder by a
torus, ...".  While it may seem pedantic to the authors, I strongly
believe that the logic of the whole study was severely compromised by
the decision at the outset to use a cylindrical coordinate solver, and
(I'm sorry to say that) it needs to be scrapped and done again.  As
the aspect ratio is large I am moderately confident that detailed
cross checks with the Cartesian coordinate formulation would show
little detectable difference in behaviour from what is reported, but
to enter into discussion of this comparison will very likely raise the
following question in the mind of the reader: "why did not the authors
use a Cartesian formulation from the outset for the entire study?".

With careful explanation the authors could perhaps overcome the
difficulty but I think the conception and quality of the overall work
will remain below the standard required by the journal.  So as stated
at the beginning, I believe (still) that the manuscript should be
rejected by JFM.  Or that the work should be re-done with Cartesian
formulation before any subsequent resubmission.

2. On the issue of comparison to the work of Henderson (1997) I take
the authors' point that his work was primarily directed to large-scale
mixed modes at Reynolds numbers above the linear onset of mode A,
rather than the subcritical nature of this initial bifurcation,
although this did receive as much (or more) detailed treatment here
than in Henderson & Barkley (1996), or Barkley & Henderson (1996).  On
this issue the new feature that the authors have pointed out is that
the Re-extent of the nonlinear hysteresis envelope of the mode-A
bifurcation in a restricted subspace is apparently affected to a
fairly large degree by the assumed spanwise wavelength of the
subspace, and I agree that this is new and interesting. However, I
think that the work in larger domain (10*pi*d) here reinforces one
central finding of Henderson (1997): with enough active Fourier modes
in the instability band of mode A, chaotic behaviour can be obtained.

In this regard, an issue not satisfactorily dealt with in the
manuscript concerns the authors' statement (in the abstract and
elsewhere) that there is "no preferred wavelength" for mode A
instability.  This relates to the apparent decrease without bound of
the lower Re-limit of the nonlinear hysteresis envelope with
increasing spanwise wavelength lambda for the subspace results shown
in figure 2(b). Surely the lower-Re limit of the hysteresis band
cannot keep falling as lambda increases: more work by the authors is
needed to better define the shape of the nonlinear subspace Re-lambda
hysteresis envelope, at least to the extent of finding its turning
point with lambda.

3. On the issue of numerical methods and spatial resolution, I am
firstly still concerned that (even qualitative) aspects of the
findings my be influenced by lack of spatial resolution, and the
authors do insufficient to convince us of the adequacy of their
resolution. This starts (figure 2a) with the clearly observable
difference in the linear stability boundary found with their standard
resolution (6 collocation points or polynomial order N=5 along each
element edge) as opposed to that found by Barkley & Henderson (1996),
where similar element sizes but 9 collocation points, polynomial order
N=8, were used at comparable Reynolds number. Barkley & Henderson gave
a very comprehensive (and hence, reassuring) study of mesh resolution
effects on their analysis and their statement of a +/- 1 resolution of
the key instability Reynolds numbers has proved reliable (and
conservative) in subsequent studies.

The present authors need to do more in order to convince us that their
key findings (especially, the variation of the nonlinear stability
envelope with spanwise wavelength) are insensitive to resolution
effects. For example, they show us in figure 2 that this degree of
variation exists in going from their standard resolution (N=5) to a
resolution comparable with that of Barkley & Henderson (N=7) - and
then adopt the lower resolution for computing their subsequent
results. I would have thought this a good reason for adopting N=7 for
the remainder, not N=5. The fact that their linear stability curve at
the lower resolution agrees with that for the higher resolution to
within the tolerance stated by Barkley and Henderson is not sufficient
on its own (e.g. in Barkley & Henderson table 2 we see that key
fluctuation quantities are typically converged to 4 figures at N=8 but
only about 2 figures at N=4: confidence in their adoption of N=8 is
well reinforced).

My concern about resolution runs all the way through the manuscript
and (as I said last time) this is not helped by the evident lack of
resolution of the primitive variables visible in figures 7, 9, 10 and
13; the authors' argument on this point in their rejoinder is not very
convincing; the C1-type-discontinuities that we see would disappear
with adequate element polynomial order, although I agree that the
first-order concern is with boundary-layer resolution.  The point is
that the informed reader should not continually be reminded of a
concern about marginality of resolution.

Second, the authors supply almost no detail of the numerical methods
used other than to describe the spatial discretization. Is this a
time-split method, what is the formal temporal accuracy of the
method, etc? Please supply a reference to the method and its former use.

Third, details of the number of Fourier modes and spatial resolution
used in the spanwise direction are difficult to determine from the
manuscript and in places seem confused. For example, on page 15 in
discussing the larger-spanwise-extent simulations, I understand that
they have used 32 complex Fourier modes (counting the axisymmetric
mode 0) for these. Then they state that an FFT with 64 modes is
used. Did they mean 64 planes of real data and a real-complex FFT of
32 modes, or have they adopted a complex-complex FFT and packed their
data somehow to do two real-complex transforms at once? I'm happy to
consider that I may have misinterpreted the details here, but a
similar question may arise for other readers.

A related point is that in Henderson (1997) and other works
(especially that of Barkley, Tuckerman & Golubitsky, PRE 61, 2000,
which should be cited by the present authors) there is evidence that
spatio-temporal chaos in this system is associated with nonlinear
interaction between unstable A-type modes and linearly stable B-type
modes, even at Reynolds numbers well below the linear onset of mode
B. In the large-domain simulations, are there enough Fourier modes to
allow small-wavelength B-type modes (wavelengths of order 0.8d) to be
driven and resolved?

Again, all these matters touch on the standard and quality of the present
work and contribute to my assessment that it is not equal to the
quality maintained by the journal.

4. The authors perhaps do not appreciate the distinction between
subharmonic and quasi-periodic instability modes of rings and circular
cylinders, respectively (top of page 4). Indeed, a quasi-periodic mode
does bifurcate from the basic state of the 2D cylinder wake, as first
indicated by Barkley and Henderson (1996) and subsequently
investigated in detail by Blackburn, Marques and Lopez (2005) where it
was shown that Re_c=377 for this mode.  The quasi-periodic mode does
not appear for ring wakes of sufficiently low aspect ratio, where it
can morph into a subharmonic mode (apparently, up to at least Ar=40,
as suggested by figure 11 of Sheard et al 2003). This is an example
where finite curvature affects stability behaviour: the 2D wake of
the circular cylinder has a greater degree of spatio-temporal symmetry
than that for the ring, and a detailed investigation of this aspect
and its influence remains to be performed. 

5. A point the authors make a few times is that in the large-domain
simulations, slantwise shedding is observed following a reduction in
Reynolds number below the chaotic regime. Last time I pointed out that
the slant angle found here is a function of the maximum spanwise
extent of the the domain, and the authors agree with this.  Actually I
do not have a problem with slantwise shedding here, since it is clear
that this could be influenced by spanwise periodicity. My main concern
is that the authors' wording (e.g. in the last sentence of the
abstract) can be taken to suggest that slantwise shedding will always
arise following a reduction in Reynolds number from the chaotic regime
to a lower value. Surely this depends on the initial conditions?
Another outcome is that parallel shedding resumes, and indeed
slantwise shedding at the half-wavelength (a 2-start helical mode)
could perhaps also arise. The authors need to make clear that the
slantwise shedding is not an inevitable outcome (or, if indeed it is,
demonstrate this with more careful investigation), and especially so
in the abstract.

6. Regarding the shift in shedding frequency shown in figure 4,
Henderson (1997, figures 3 and 6) presents data on this shift at
Re=195. This should be included and commented upon.  Also, in the
caption to figure 4, we see two long-wavelength domain sizes given:
31d and 31.4d. Is this correct, or should these both say 31.4d?

7. The discussion about the blow-up of the Re=185 simulation in
section 5.1 and the subsequent treatment and results of this
simulation is (a) rather disturbing and (b) confusing. Three pages of
manuscript and two figures are associated with this simulation. I
think the blow-up might be associated with the rather large initial
mode-A-type perturbation in Fourier mode 1. Surely a small random
perturbation in this mode would have been adequate, as eventually all
the modes would reach a statistical equilibrium? Much of the
discussion here must relate to the period before the blow-up when the
system was far from statistical equilibrium (since only four shedding
periods were subsequently achieved with a more highly resolved
mesh). Hence one wonders about its relevance. The simulations here
should be re-made with a smaller initial perturbation in mode 1 (or,
all modes), and we should be reassured the system reached a reasonable
approximation to a statistically steady state.

8. The title should have "circular" inserted before "cylinder".

