TITLE:        On the subcritical bifurcation at the onset of
	      three-dimensionality in the circular cylinder wake
              
AUTHORS:      Tanvir, Bouchet & Dusek

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluid Mechanics

REVIEW:	      Third

The authors have made various minor alterations to the manuscript in
response to my previous review.  I am still unable to accept this
manuscript, and as before, principally owing to difficulties with the
numerical techniques employed. I still believe the overall results are
interesting but the detail needs careful attention and revision
(including new large-domain DNS runs for Re=170 at higher spatial
resolution) before the manuscript could be accepted.

1. The new argument advanced by the authors in their rejoinder to the
second round of review regarding resolution is not convincing, and in
fact only made me less comfortable about the amount of in-plane
(spectral element) resolution that had been used.  This new
information adds to the concerns I had about resolution and raised in
point 3 of my last review.  I agree that sufficient spanwise domain
extent and resolution is required to examine the dynamics that the
authors seek to address but I do not agree that this may done at the
expense of planar resolution.

In the rejoinder, we are supplied figures 1 and 2 which are analogous
to to figures 8 and 11 of the manuscript (and restarted from the data
at the high time end of figure 8), but where they have increased the
1D elemental resolution from (I believe) polynomial order N=5 to N=7
for their Re=170 DNS, which as they state in the rejoinder is "the
main result of the paper".  We see in this new figure 1 that the
energy in the leading 3D mode m=1 immediately starts increasing in the
DNS with this higher level of planar resolution. By the largest time
in new figure 1, it has increased almost two orders of magnitude and
shows little sign of saturation (i.e. of reaching statistical
equilibrium).  This is reflected in the fact that the spectral density
of the first spanwise wavenumber of the spectrum presented in figure 2
of the rejoinder is about one order of magnitude larger than the
corresponding value in figure 11 of the manuscript.  Far from
reassuring me that that their original resolution was sufficient, this
very strongly suggests that the original simulations were
under-resolved, and calls into question all the data of section 5, and
especially of figures 6, 8 and 11.  I should say that more adequate
checks of resolution and solution statistical equilibrium should have
been carried out before the authors submitted the original manuscript.
In order for me to consider the manuscript acceptable the authors need
now to establish through further simulations that the statistical
equilibrium state for section 5.2 (as represented by figures 8, 9, 10,
11 and 12) is sensibly independent of planar and spanwise resolution,
as evidently changing from N=5 to N=7 has had a substantial effect.

2. By their remarks in the last rejoinder and by what is written in
Section 2 of the manuscript, the authors have now managed to confuse
me (and hence I believe would confuse another reader) as to whether or
not they have, or have not, used a cylindrical numerical formulation
to compute results presented in the paper.  What I believe to be the
case is that they have used a cylindrical formulation with a large
value of aspect ratio Ar = D/d (since they continue to mention the
aspect ratio in section 2) but that this is large (most likely, as in
the original version of the manuscript, Ar=500, but as far as I can
see they no longer supply the numerical value anywhere, even though I
explictly requested they do so in my last review).  They have verified
(by the table presented in the last rejoinder - a cross-check on one
result with a fully Cartesian formulation) that at Ar=500 the use of a
cylindrical formulation has miniscule effect on the bifurcation
properties for mode A, and I am happy to accept there is minimal
effect for all their results if Ar=500 or thereabouts.

I do however feel that the authors are still evading the issue about
the potential difference between instabilities of ring and cylinder
wakes, produced by the broken spatio-temporal symmetry of the ring
wake as compared to that of the circular cylinder. These points were
made in the paper by Blackburn et al. (2005) and more recently
revisited by Blackburn & Sheard (2010), Physics of Fluids v22. The
results in this latter paper help the present authors' case (if their
aspect ratio is indeed uniformly large) since they show that a small
amount of curvature does indeed produce only a negligble change to the
bifurcation of the third set of modes to arise from the basic state
(and presumably of the other modes too). A larger amount (of order
that in the 2003 paper by Sheard et al.) does however produce a
qualitatively different result, changing these modes from
quasiperiodic to subharmonic at Ar=30. This confirms that the dynamics
of the ring wake *are* different to that of a Cartesian circular
cylinder, as the theory of Marques et al. (2004) predicts (and
contrary to what the authors seem to me to be suggesting in para. 2,
page 7 in relation to the results of Sheard et al. 2003), but that one
may expect the influence of curvature on the dynamics to be small for
large aspect ratios.

In summary: the authors could overcome my objections to their use of
toriodal geometry if (a) it is true that they have used a cylindrical
coordinate formulation, the aspect ratio is indeed uniformly large
(Ar=500 say) and they clearly state in the manuscript the value(s) of
Ar used; (b) the discussion in para. 2, page 7 were revised and
expanded to give a more complete explanation of the potential
difficulty with using a toriodal geometry, together with evidence
(e.g. their tabulated values from the rejoinder, discussion of
Blackburn & Sheard's results) that any influence is likely to be
negligible at high values of aspect ratio; (c) the text of section 2
were revised so that the reader can not come away in any doubt as to
the formulation (Cartesian/cylindrical) the authors have used.  These
suggestions are in line with those I made in my last review.

3. DNS studies are by definition "fully nonlinear" even though they
may take place in a domain of restricted spanwise periodicity: this is
nonlinear simulation in a subspace of the ideal system which has
infinite span.  The authors seem to conflate these two issues.  All
DNS studies of cylinder wakes to date (perhaps all possible numerical
studies of that system) have this restriction, however the authors are
quite correct to point out, as other have before, that the restriction
can have significant consequences for the dynamics. Hence I suggest
that the authors need to re-work the material on page 4 with regard to
the above discussion, and instead of using "Fully non-linear numerical
investigations are ..." at the start of para. 2, use "Nonlinear
numerical investigations with a large spanwise extent are ..." or
something similar.

4. As a related point, it is untrue that the quasiperiodic mode has
"never been observed in a fully nonlinear simulation of the circular
cylinder wake" (page 4, end of para. 1).  Just as for the synchronous
modes A and B of the circular cylinder wake, and as for the
quasiperiodic mode of the square cylinder wake, it has indeed been
reported (e.g. fig 6, Blackburn at al. 2005) as a pure state for fully
nonlinear DNS of a circular cylinder wake carried out in a subspace of
restricted spanwise periodicity.  It would be correct to say that the
quasiperiodic mode has not yet been observed in DNS with large
spanwise domain extent.  While the subharmonic mode of a ring wake has
been studied by full-domain DNS and by experiment (Sheard et
al. 2005), this work was conducted at low aspect ratio (Ar=5) where it
is difficult to argue similarity to the infinite cylinder wake.  It is
also the case that modes A and B are not observed as pure states one
the spanwise domain extent is sufficiently large.

5. I still find the information concerning the spanwise resolution and
Fourier modes, now presented on page 9, confusing. Please can the
authors clearly state how many real planes of data are represented in
the spanwise direction. Is it 32 or 64?

6. In the discussion of 14, the authors should follow up on the
statements about spanwise subharmonics to point out that this means
there is little reason to continue tracking the solid curve in figure
2(b) to larger spanwise wavelengths.


