TITLE:        Stability of oscillatory and pulsatile flows in a
              circular pipe by a Legendre spectral method

AUTHORS:      C Tu & MO Deville

SUBMITTED TO: Computers and Fluids

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

This study deals with the linear stability analysis of oscillatory and
also pulsatile flow in infinite tubes of circular cross section. The
fluid is Newtonian and the walls of the tube are rigid. The
oscillatory components of the axial pressure gradient are simple
harmonic in time.

The work is important because as yet there are no published studies of
the stability analysis of this flow, which can serve e.g. as a
much-simplified version of flow in the larger arteries of blood
circulation. The analysis is believable, and the prediction that
indeed the pulsatile flow can become unstable is important. So I feel
tha the work deserves publication, however there are a number of
shortcomings in the manuscript that need to be addressed before I
could recommend it be accepted.

MAIN POINTS
-----------

1. Spatial and temporal convergence of the analysis needs to be
demonstrated, especially at the higher ends of the Reynolds number and
frequency ranges used.

2. None of the results are presented in graphical form. We should be
presented with various example mode shapes.

3. In the presentation of the base flows in \S\S 2.1 and 2.2, I think
that (since the nonlinear terms of the base flows are all zero) the
oscillatory components of the flow (eq 5) and then (eqns 7--12) are in
fact exactly the same. The treatment should be unified to take account
of this.

4. There is confusion in the manuscript between spatial dimension and
number of velocity components. For example a general swirling
axisymmetric flow is three-component, two-dimensional.  The authors
need to carefully revise the whole manuscript in order to properly
take account of this distinction.

MINOR POINTS
------------

5. Title. I suggest this be reduced to: Stability of oscillatory and
pulsatile flows in a circular pipe.

6. It needs to be pointed out more clearly in the Introduction that
for both the oscillatory and pulsatile flows considered, only a single
temporal harmonic is employed.

7. In \S2.1, P is not in fact the pressure, but the "modified"
pressure P/rho.

8. Page 7, end 2nd para, "by the Legendre" -> "by a Legendre".

9. Page 7, /S 4.1, last sentence para 1: I suggest some other wording
be used than "a poisoned source of numerical difficulties".

10. Eq (25) "div w"?

11. Could we see some of the dimensionless frequencies be given as
Womersley numbers? How relevant are the results to physiologically
relevant values of Reynolds and Womersley numbers for example in the
human aorta?
