This thesis deals with a few distinct topics in the fluid mechanics of
bluff bodies.

The first topic is three-dimensional stability of two-dimensional
flows past elongated flat plates with rounded leading edges, and in
particular the effect of plate length:thickness ratio on the relative
stability of the three types of modes that can arise in codimension-1
bifurcations in this system. The novel feature of the results is that
at high aspect ratios (greater than approx. 17.5:1) it is the
quasiperiodic mode that loses stability first as Reynolds number is
increased. This is in contrast to what has been found in previous
studies for circular and square cylinders, and for rectangular plates
with square leading edges, where synchronous modes are the first to
become unstable. The numerical method employed by the candidate in
stability analysis is unable to directly predict the Floquet
multipliers in quasiperiodic cases, as it is essentially a
one-dimensional method, similar to that used by Robichaux et
al. (1999) -- other cues must be used to assess if the mode could be
quasiperiodic. The candidate does not appear to fully appreciate that
in bifurcations with complex-conjugate pair multipliers there are, in
the nonlinear case, two possible distinct manifestations of
quasiperiodic modes: standing and travelling waves, of which only one
is stable. Within the context of the thesis, this is quite
understandable, as this finding has only appeared in the literature
quite recently, and the candidate has been working on other areas as
well.

The other parts of the thesis deal with two-dimensional simulations of
flows past cylinders that can move, either lightly-sprung and free to
move only in the cross-flow direction, or tethered but not sprung --
the restoring force in the latter case being provided by tension in
the tether.

For the lightly sprung cylinder, it has already been established that
at much higher Reynolds numbers, there is a critical cylinder mass
ratio below which the lockin regime apparently extends to infinite
reduced velocities. Also it appears from previous results that for the
(low) Reynolds number of 100, such a critical mass ratio exists. The
work in the thesis extends this analysis to a wider range of low
Reynolds numbers, maximum 300. As can often be the case, things are
not so simple, and it turns out that within this range there is a
subset of Reynolds numbers [100 to 190, approx.] over which no
critical mass ratio was found to exist. Thus it is difficult to make
the generalisation that, except for this subset, a critical mass ratio
exists for all Reynolds numbers above the onset of vortex shedding at
Re=47.

The work on the tethered cylinders is more complete, and forms the
basis for the bulk of the work written up in the thesis (chapters 5, 6
and 7). All these results are computed at a Reynolds number of 200.
Reading chapter 5, it was not immediately apparent to me that the
reduced velocity was varied by changing the buoyancy force, and I had
to revisit chapter 2 to be reminded of this fact. The moment of
inertia is initially defined only in approximate form in chapter 5, an
error that is admittedly unimportant within the context of that
chapter and also in the following one, and which is subsequently
rectified in chapter 7.

For the cases dealt with in chapter 5, there is a step change in
oscillation frequency that occurs at a reduced velocity of
approximately 5, from being dominated by the drag frequency to being
dominated by the lift frequency (the drag period-doubles so that the
lift and drag have the same fundamental frequency). Subsequently at
larger reduced velocities, as the layover angle increases towards 90
degrees, the dynamics become more like those of the lightly sprung
cylinder, and the oscillation amplitudes fall.

In chapter 6, the mass ratio is varied in order to establish its
effect. It is found that if the mass ratio is less than approx. 0.4,
there is a jump change in flow characteristics when the Froude number
is increased above approx. 0.8. This jump change was characterised in
terms of a number of different parameters, but after reading the
chapter I did not come away with an understanding of the fluid
mechanics underlying the phenomenon.

In chapter 7, the final chapter of results, the mass ratio is
initially fixed at 0.2, and the tether length is varied. Here the
full, correct, form of the moment of inertia is used. It is said,
following eq. (7.3), that the earlier simplification is valid if
L*>>(1/64), whereas it seems that this should be L*>>(1/sqrt(8)) [as
is later noted following eq. (7.12)]. Then the effect of tether length
on critical mass ratio is examined, and it is found that the as the
tether length increases, the critical mass ratio approaches that for
the lightly sprung cylinder.

As indicated above, the thesis contains a number of minor errors and
inconsistencies, but on the whole I believe this is good original
research which deserves to be accepted as satisfying the requirements
for a PhD. The publishable bulk of the work comes from the final
chapters. I would suggest that if possible the physical mechanisms
responsible for the step changes noted in chapter 6 be established,
although I do not regard this as a prerequisite for acceptance of the
thesis.






