TITLE:        Asymmetry and transition to turbulence in a 
              smooth axisymmetric constriction

AUTHORS:      J Vetel, M-I Farinas, A Garon, D. Pelletier

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluid Mechanics

REVIEW:	      Second

1. Please state how the Reynolds number is defined and provide the
diameter of the pipe (or convert statements about geometric tolerances
to dimensionless form).

2. I am still very concerned that the major cause of the symmetry
breaking we see in figures 5 and 6 for example is lack of inflow
conditioning, or asymmetry of the equipment. (As the authors
themselves remind us on page 47, these flows can be extraordinarily
sensitive to inlet flow conditions and perturbation.) The authors need
to do more to inform readers on these matters. Here are my
suggestions:

a. Provide a diagram of the test setup and give details
of the flow conditioning provided to the inflow.

b. As requested in the previous review, provide contour plots
illustrating the symmetry of the axial velocities on inflow, whether
of not this is redundant.

c. Provide quantitative limits on non-axial/swirl velocities in the
inflow.

3. The authors need also to provide more information about
experimental conditions and procedure related to orientations of the
symmetry breaking seen in figures 5 and 6.  Are the angular
orientations of the symmetry breakings random, or repeatable? The
authors need to state this clearly in the manuscript. If the
orientations are not related to experimental technique or asymmetry of
the equipment, they ought to be random. If the results for example in
figure 5 are obtained in a single continuous run of the experimental
equipment, then it would seem that there is a clear progression of
angular orientation of the broken symmetry with Reynolds number, yet
the original orientation could be random. If they were obtained in
separate runs then since there is a clear relationship between the
orientations at different Reynolds number, the orientation would seem
to be non-random.

4. In the DNS of Varghese et al., (2007a), it is clear that no
non-axisymmetric perturbation was applied in the case of the
axisymmetric geometry. Since their mesh had a regular azimuthal
structure (private communication from Varghese et al.) there was
nothing except numerical noise to drive a unity wavenumber symmetry
breaking instability, which would then only evolve to observable size
very slowly, if at all, for the two Reynolds numbers considered. So
their results are not in conflict with the symmetry breaking stability
analysis provided by Sherwin & Blackburn (2005). Using DNS in the
fashion of Varghese et al., the only way to be conclusive about
symmetry breaking instabilities is to provide the long-time outcome of
response to general (e.g. random) small/linear perturbation across a
range of Reynolds numbers. Since they have not done this their
analysis offers nothing conclusive about stability of flow in the case
of axisymmetric geometry. Thus I suggest that the last sentence in the
first paragraph be removed, or since the work of Varghese et al. does
not *predict* axisymmetric flow, altered to state: "For an
axisymmetric stenosis and in the absence of non-axisymmetric
perturbation, the DNS described by Varghese et al. (2005) produced
laminar flow for Reynolds numbers of 500 and 1000."

5. The authors need to correct their statements on page 18 and also in
the Conclusions, page 46, which say that symmetry breaking/Coanda-type
attachment has not previously been investigated in axisymmetric
geometries, since (as remarked in the Introduction), a Coanda-type
symmetry breaking was one of the predictions made by Blackburn &
Sherwin (2005). It seems that the present authors meant to say that
this had not been previously been investigated experimentally. In both
instances they need to point out that this feature was predicted
numerically by Blackburn & Sherwin.

6. In the Conclusions, page 47, the authors need to use more care in
stating how their results disagree with the stability analysis of
Blackburn & Sherwin (2005). It seems that the disagreement is more
related to the onset Reynolds number than to the form of the
instability. The work of Blackburn & Sherwin necessarily was a study
of symmetry breaking from a perfectly symmetric geometry and flow. It
would certainly be of interest to study the influence of either
geometric or inflow asymmetry numerically, but this is more a
perturbation analysis of a state with broken symmetry than a stability
analysis, and I suggest the last sentence of paragraph 1, page 47, be
altered along these lines.


---------------------------------------------------------
FROM THE FIRST REVIEW
---------------------------------------------------------

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

An experimental study of transition to non-axisymmetry in steady flow
through a smooth contraction (stenosis) in a straight pipe. Stenosis
degree is 75% (50% on diameter), contraction 2D long overall - a
geometry used by many other workers in this area. Reynolds numbers
range from 116 to 1160. After examining symmetry breaking, the authors
move on to look at flow structures in the transitional flow that
occurs once symmetry breaks. I found the latter part of the work very
nice, but have issues with the earlier parts.

MAIN POINTS
-----------

1. Sherwin & Blackburn (2005) provided stability analysis and DNS for
this flow. This much is acknowledged in the Introduction, but their
critical Reynolds number for absolute instability was Re=722 (a fact
that is mentioned here, but on page 59 of the manuscript). The
bifurcation was subcritical, and asymmetry was maintained in DNS down
to Re=688.  However, in the present work, the critical Reynolds number
is said to be 400 (of order 50% of the numerical predictions), and
asymmetry is quite visible in the flow immediately downstream of the
stenosis at Re=209, and even at Re=116 (see figure 7).

This raises the question: what is the state of symmetry in the flow
upstream of the stenosis, at all Re? In figure 3, we see that the flow
in one plane is close to parabolic over the range of Re, and for at
Re=928 there is a paraboloid isosurface, but it is actually difficult
to assess the symmetry of the inflow from these things (and e.g. one
notes that in figure 7, the corresponding downstream contours also
seem reasonably symmetric at Re=1160).

In order to address the question, the authors should present contour
plots, comparable to figure 7, but for the flow upstream of the
contraction. And in general, they need to pay greater attention to the
apparent discrepancy between their experiments, and the previous
stability analysis and DNS: e.g. the linear absolute instability
Re_c=722 should be mentioned in the Introduction. On the other hand,
it is evident (as the authors note) that there is good qualitative
agreement between the behaviour they find, and that predicted by
Sherwin and Blackburn.

If asymmetry is apparent in the upstream flow, that does not
necessarily preclude eventual publication, but I should say the
authors would at least consider re-performing this part of the work,
with greater care given to upstream flow conditioning. Obviously,
perfect symmetry in the upstream flow is impossible in a physical
experiment, and one would expect any asymmetry to reduce the critical
Re. However, at a minimum, we do need a clear indication of how
asymmetric the upstream flow actually is over the full range of
experimental Re.

2. I found the manuscript over-long in places, while necessary detail
was omitted in in others. The authors could give rather less space in
the Introduction to describing symmetry breaking in 2D channels, and
of expansion flows at much higher Re, and give a little more space to
motivating their work - the motivation seems restricted to just a
single sentence on page 11: 'To the author knowledge, this has not
been done previously'. 

In section 2, quite a lot of space is given to description of the data
processing, but there is no statement on the geometric tolerances of
the constriction, inflow conditioning, or even of the length of the
inflow pipe: we need to have these details. Also: what is the
(quantitative) turbulence intensity/degree of unsteadiness in the
inflow to the stenosis?

MINOR POINTS
------------

3. The stenosis degree and the range of Reynolds number should be
stated in the Abstract.


