TITLE:        Asymmetry and transition to turbulence in a 
              smooth axisymmetric constriction

AUTHORS:      J Vetel, M-I Farinas, A Garon, D. Pelletier

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluid Mechanics

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

An experimental study of transition to non-axisymmetry in steady flow
through a smooth contraction (stenosis) in a straight pipe. Stenosis
degree is 75% (50% on diameter), contraction 2D long overall - a
geometry used by many other workers in this area. Reynolds numbers
range from 116 to 1160. After examining symmetry breaking, the authors
move on to look at flow structures in the transitional flow that
occurs once symmetry breaks. I found the latter part of the work very
nice, but have issues with the earlier parts.

MAIN POINTS
-----------

1. Sherwin & Blackburn (2005) provided stability analysis and DNS for
this flow. This much is acknowledged in the Introduction, but their
critical Reynolds number for absolute instability was Re=722 (a fact
that is mentioned here, but on page 59 of the manuscript). The
bifurcation was subcritical, and asymmetry was maintained in DNS down
to Re=688.  However, in the present work, the critical Reynolds number
is said to be 400 (of order 50% of the numerical predictions), and
asymmetry is quite visible in the flow immediately downstream of the
stenosis at Re=209, and even at Re=116 (see figure 7).

This raises the question: what is the state of symmetry in the flow
upstream of the stenosis, at all Re? In figure 3, we see that the flow
in one plane is close to parabolic over the range of Re, and for at
Re=928 there is a paraboloid isosurface, but it is actually difficult
to assess the symmetry of the inflow from these things (and e.g. one
notes that in figure 7, the corresponding downstream contours also
seem reasonably symmetric at Re=1160).

In order to address the question, the authors should present contour
plots, comparable to figure 7, but for the flow upstream of the
contraction. And in general, they need to pay greater attention to the
apparent discrepancy between their experiments, and the previous
stability analysis and DNS: e.g. the linear absolute instability
Re_c=722 should be mentioned in the Introduction. On the other hand,
it is evident (as the authors note) that there is good qualitative
agreement between the behaviour they find, and that predicted by
Sherwin and Blackburn.

If asymmetry is apparent in the upstream flow, that does not
necessarily preclude eventual publication, but I should say the
authors would at least consider re-performing this part of the work,
with greater care given to upstream flow conditioning. Obviously,
perfect symmetry in the upstream flow is impossible in a physical
experiment, and one would expect any asymmetry to reduce the critical
Re. However, at a minimum, we do need a clear indication of how
asymmetric the upstream flow actually is over the full range of
experimental Re.

2. I found the manuscript over-long in places, while necessary detail
was omitted in in others. The authors could give rather less space in
the Introduction to describing symmetry breaking in 2D channels, and
of expansion flows at much higher Re, and give a little more space to
motivating their work - the motivation seems restricted to just a
single sentence on page 11: 'To the author knowledge, this has not
been done previously'. 

In section 2, quite a lot of space is given to description of the data
processing, but there is no statement on the geometric tolerances of
the constriction, inflow conditioning, or even of the length of the
inflow pipe: we need to have these details. Also: what is the
(quantitative) turbulence intensity/degree of unsteadiness in the
inflow to the stenosis?

MINOR POINTS
------------

3. The stenosis degree and the range of Reynolds number should be
stated in the Abstract.


