TITLE:        Hydrodynamic lift and drag fluctuations on a sphere

AUTHORS:      Jack Wang, Gerald C. Lauchle and Michael S. Howe

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluids and Structures

REVIEW:	      First


SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

The manuscript describes construction of a mathematical model that
(supplemented by experimental data) may be used to estimate the
high-frequency component of unsteady forces acting on a sphere in
subcritical flow.  Forces near the Strouhal frequency are not
predicted.

SUMMARY
-------

Overall, the manuscript may suitable for publication in JFS, after
some revision.  The single major problem I have with the paper, and
the model developed therein, is that it does not appear to be able to
describe the frequency component of forces near the Strouhal
frequency.

While in the Abstract, for example, the authors state that the
"... model is developed to estimate the unsteady force induced on a
rigid spherical body ...", it is not until p.21 that we find the it
does not actually seek to model force components near the Strouhal
frequency "... because of our interest to model the broadband force
spectrum of ocean sensors subjected to flow".  Thus I feel the title
of the paper, and the abstract, at least, are misleading.  This
problem can be redressed; for example it would help to point out this
lack of generality earlier (e.g. in the abstract), and to provide more
detailed motivation for the approach (i.e. of the application) in the
Introduction.

OTHER ISSUES
------------

1.  There are some problems with non-definition of terms with which
    the readers of this journal may be unfamiliar.  For example, what
    is "self-noise"?  What is an "inertial sensor"?  Both these terms
    are used in para.1 of the Introduction without explanation.

2.  In para.2 of the Introduction the authors state "The pressure
    fluctuations generated on the surface of a sensor by a
    non-turbulent inflow, however, shold be lower than those of the
    same Reynolds number flow but generated by an already turbulent
    inflow".  This is not always true, for example near "drag crisis"
    Reynolds numbers; some qualification is needed.  In fact, the
    authors do not appear to have stated what this Reynolds number is,
    although it seems clear that their measurements and theory are for
    subcritical Reynolds numbers.

3.  Given the nature of the journal, it might sometimes be better to
    use different dimensionless units.  For example, the ordinate of
    Fig.3 might be better expressed in terms of the spectral density
    of pressure coefficient, rather than dB re 20 \muPa.  However,
    since the applications area is acoustics, dB may be more natural
    for many readers.

4.  Why use "phase (degree)" as the RH ordinate of Fig.6 but "phase
    (radian)" on Fig.7?

5.  p.6, para.2: I thought that sentences 2 & 3 (describing Wilmarth &
    Enlow's findings) would have been better placed in the preceeding
    paragraph.

6.  p.21, end para.1: Describing Fig.3, the authors state "At
    frequencies higher than the shedding frequency, the spectral
    levels decay monotonically with frequency".  This does not seem to
    be true, for example, for \theta=80 degrees.

7.  p.21, last para: "Fig.4 shows ... are similar to what eq.(23)
    predicts".  I couldn't find a line or curve on Fig.4 that I could
    relate specifically to eq.(23).

8.  p.20, end of 2nd para: in "... and with actual experimental unsteady
    force spectra measured on a towed sphere in water"; are the words
    "actual experimental unsteady" not redundant?
