TITLE:        Numerical Study of Gas-Solid Flow in a Cyclone Separator

AUTHORS:      Wang, Xu, Chu & Yu

SUBMITTED TO: Applied Mathematical Modelling

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

This work describes a CFD study of flow in a cyclonic separator, using
the Fluent CFD package. The gas flow is simulated using a Reynolds
stress transport turbulence model, and trajectories of solid particles
are integrated through the resulting flow field using a Lagrangian
approach. The particles' momentum is not back-coupled to the continuum
momentum equations.

Owing to poor English usage in places the authors' meaning is
sometimes quite unclear and besides this I found the large number of
minor grammatical and spelling errors detracted from ease of reading.
These problems should be corrected with the aid of a native English
speaker. More fundamentally I found that I sometimes could not agree
with the authors' logic.  The manuscript should not be accepted
without revisions to deal with these problems. 

There was too great a reliance on use of colour; as I had only a black
and white printout I found it difficult to interpret many of the
results.  Of course, even if the manuscript appears in colour in both
the hard copy and electronically, many readers will only ultimately be
reading from a B/W copy or printout.  I suggest the authors consider
revising many of their figures with this in mind.

Here is a list of points on which I feel the authors need to respond:

1. MANDATORY REVISION: I could not follow the logic by which the
authors sought to justify the asymptotically circular particle paths
at large particle sizes (say for d=0.1mm in figure 13).  One possible
explanation would be that there is a net upwards flow of gas is needed
near the wall in such a location to support particles against gravity.
Yet on the contrary the axial velocity contours of figure 6 show there
is apparently downflow all along the walls.  The other possible
explanation is that tangential flows are large enough near the wall to
keep the particles up to sufficient speed to stop them descending the
cone.  Please could the authors work out the tangential flow velocity
required to do this, and compare it to the CFD result.

Another related question is: why does such an effect apparently only
influence the largest size fraction?

2. MANDATORY REVISION: The outflow length of the domain is extremely
short.  In my experience this can (somewhat surprisingly) have quite
large effect on predicted flows within the body of the cyclone, and in
particular can lead to the kinds of helical twisting of the vortex
core right down into the cyclone body that the authors have predicted.
A related effect is that it can strongly influence axial flow
components.  Therefore I suggest that they examine the effect of
outflow length on their results, say by adding an additional outflow
length equivalent to overall cyclone height H.  (And if this has an
effect, try increasing the length further until there is no more
effect.)  If the gas flow results differ substantially then the
particle trajectories will need to be recomputed.

3. In figure 4 the authors show good agreement to experimental results
for swirl velocity.  As some of their predictions seem to depend on
axial velocity also, they should provide a comparison to a profile or
two of axial velocity.  And preferably also the swirl component should
be compared at some other axial locations.

4. More generally, there was no description of the experimental
component of the work - this ought to have its own small section in
the manuscript.  How, for example, was the volume flow rate of fluid
into the cyclone established?  And how was the inflow for the CFD set
to match?  What measurement techniques were employed?

5. In reference to the results of figure 10 and 11, I could not
understand why the authors expect us to believe the computational
results for particle release in regions A and B (shown in figure 10),
because one would also expect to see evidence of particle short
circuiting in the corresponding experimental results of figure 11,
while apparently there is little sensitivity to release location.
Surely this calls into question one of the authors' central
conclusions (dot point 4).  In order to demonstrate some effect of
inlet release location on separation, it would be more convincing to
break the inlet into say four equal rectangular regions and then give
a tabular summary of the proportion of particles that reach the
underflow, the proportion that leave through the vortex finder (and
the remainder, presumably lost!) which do neither in each of the 5
size fractions used.
