TITLE:        Natural convection flows in air-filled differentially heated
	      cavities with adiabatic horizontal walls

AUTHORS:      S Xin and P le Quere

SUBMITTED TO: Numerical Heat Transfer NHT05/3977

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

The manuscript deals with application of numerical methods previously
devised and applied by the present authors to similar problems in
natural convection: stability of steady states in differentially
heated rectangular cavities, and the effect of cavity aspect ratio
thereon. The stability analysis here is all two-dimensional. The
material is in the main well presented and described (apart from a
fair number of spelling and other minor errors). The only real concern
I had about the manuscript was on the grounds of novelty, given that
this is well-travelled ground for these authors. For example, in the
abstract we are told that the critical values of Rayleigh number agree
well with those of 4 previous investigations, 3 of which are by the
present authors (and the other is, incidentally,
mis-referenced). However, I found the manuscript interesting, and I
believe that the new material on the multiplicity of solution branches
near A=3 is sufficient to address the aspect of novelty. So overall I
recommend it be accepted, although I would like a number of points
addressed.

1. Given the above, I suggest the authors make some minor revisions to
   slightly underline what is new about what they are presenting here.

2. The analysis is all 2D: why? Is there some reason to believe that
   2D states will be more critical for all the aspect ratios dealt
   with?  Some explanation (and preferably, supporting calculations)
   would be beneficial.

3. The terms "centro-symmetric" and "anti-centro-symmetric" are used
   without definition, but as far as I know they are not in common
   use. Evidently these mean that (say for T) T(x,y)=-T(-x,-y) and
   T(x,y)=T(-x,-y), respectively. Please could this be made explicit?
   I guess it would also help to point out (although maybe this was
   done?) which modes preserve, and which break, the symmetries of the
   base states.

4. About numerics: given the mixed explicit-implicit timestepping,
   quite small stepsizes are likely to be used, anyway (based on CFL
   stability limitations). These are also needed to preserve the
   approximation to exponential behaviour of the linearized
   equations. And so for example on page 8 they state that for the
   Arnoldi method a large number of time *steps* may be needed to
   separate eigenmodes. Now this is true, but on the other hand (and
   this is also the case for the preconditioned Newton iteration) one
   can take a lot of small time steps (giving accurate integration) to
   build up a larger time *increment* for the Newton and Arnoldi
   iterations. So I was not quite sure what in fact the authors had
   done here; some more detail would be useful. On page 9, it is
   stated that "we fix one ordinary complex component of x": does this
   mean that they keep the entire real or imaginary part constant, or
   do they keep its norm constant?

5. At top of page 13 we are told that "no inclined structures are
   observed in Figure 3", which is quite contrary to what one sees!
   Some more care is needed here.

6. The axis labels of many of the plots should be re-written in English.

7. A selection of spelling/grammatical errors: rises concerns ->
   raises concerns; laser system -> laser systems; delt -> dealt; with
   continuation -> with a continuation; tree-dimensional ->
   three-dimensional; resulted Helmholtz -> resulting Helmholtz; when
   applied the same time scheme -> when the same time scheme is
   applied; extrapolate them at a -> extrapolate them to; senarios ->
   scenarios; Tukerman -> Tuckerman. But as one says, no doubt their
   English is far better than my French!
