TITLE:        Numerically capturing of the Hopf bifurcation for a
              uniform flow past one square cylinder
              
AUTHORS:      Xiaohua W and Weifang, Z

SUBMITTED TO: Fluid Dynamics Research

REVIEW: First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

A 2D DNS finite element study of the primary instability of the wake
of a square cylinder.

RECOMMENDATION

I have to recommend that the manuscript should be rejected.

POINTS

1. Other papers dealing with the same subject area have appeared and
the central feature (Critical Reynolds number) is covered in the first
of these two, the other deals with blockage effects.

(i) Title: Low-Reynolds-number flow around a square cylinder at
incidence: Study of blockage, onset of vortex shedding and outlet
boundary condition Author(s): Sohankar A, Norberg C, Davidson L
Source: INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL FOR NUMERICAL METHODS IN FLUIDS Volume:
26 Issue: 1 Pages: 39-56 Published: JAN 15 1998

(ii) Title: Effect of blockage ratio on wake transition for flow past
square cylinder Author(s): Patil PP, Tiwari S Source: FLUID DYNAMICS
RESEARCH Volume: 40 Issue: 11-12 Pages: 753-778 Published: NOV-DEC
2008

2. Apart from that, a difficulty with the present work which would on
its own precludes publication is that the results show the flow breaks
symmetry at lower Reynolds number than the onset of vortex
shedding. For the symmetric case dealt with, as for a circular
cylinder, symmetry breaking will occur via a Hopf bifurcation. This
suggests to me that the code that the authors have used to study the
problem has a slight asymmetry itself.

3. The manuscript is out of balance with respect to space given to
different aspects of the study. Far too much of the brief manuscript
is given to describing the numerical method, which seems very
standard. (In any case, nowhere are we told the order of the spatial
discretization/finite element shape functions.) Much space is given to
study of blockage but the outcomes (as summarized in figure 4) are
difficult to believe in that the variation of Strouhal number with
blockage is not smooth. (The authors should also appreciate that the
effect of blockage increases as Reynolds number reduces so that a
study at Re=100 is possibly inadequate when the Re of more interest is
around 30.) No space is given to confirming that the numerics are
spatially or temporally convergent and, as stated above in Point 2,
the numerics seem suspect. On the other hand, very little space is
given to describing the results and perhaps contrasting them with what
is found for a circular cylinder.

4. Figure captions are far to brief.
