TITLE:        On pressure invariance, wake width and drag prediction of a
	      bluff body in confined flow

AUTHORS:      WWH Yeung

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluid Mechanics

REVIEW:	      First

In this manuscript the author seeks to unify the treatment of
separated bluff body flows both with and without confinement, based
initially on considerations of nominally axisymmetric flows but later
expanding to deal also with nominally two-dimensional flows.

Main points
-----------

1. The abstract states that the manuscript deals with flows past
normal and inclined disks and flat plates, and to cones and
spheres.  However, one finds that the author also considers flows past
circular cylinders and two-dimesional flat plates.  So I suggest the
abstract be modified to state either that the method is general (as
the title would suggest) or give a full list of which flows are
examined.

2. I had some initial concern that there would be too much overlap
with the present author's 2008 contribution in JWEIA (V96:369-388:
"Self-similarity of confined flow past a bluff body") to allow
publication of another manuscript, but on careful checking I feel this
is not the case.  However, a central difficulty in accepting the
present work is that the methodology advanced seems much the same as
in the JWEIA paper.  So I suggest one essential improvement to be made
before the manuscript could be accepted is that the author describes
for the reader exactly how the present work advances and extends the
earlier one.

3. Another difficulty is that the methodology is in places a
combination of theory, empiricism, and just plain curve fitting
(e.g. the first expression on page 8, and equations 24 and 26).  In
many cases, these inputs are drawn from different sources and since a
variety of bluff bodies are dealt with the overall effect is
confusing.  Sometimes the argument is difficult to accept, for example
in the two sentences at the top of page 15 leading to equation 27.  It
is often not easy to comprehend just how much each of the inputs
(theoretical, empirical, fitted) contributes to the specific result
being examined, so again I ask that the author help the reader by
providing an assessment of these issues on a case-by-case basis,
perhaps in the Discussion.

So, my central recommendations are that in order for the manuscript to
be accepted the author needs to explicitly and convincingly point out
the distinctions and advances between this and the previous works,
especially his own, and heavily revise the manuscript in order to make
it easier to follow and to form assessments of the arguments being
advanced.

Minor points
------------

Figure 2(b): it would be better to have a line for PB75, since the X's
used suggest that these are experimental data.

Para 2, page 4, first sentence: "long" --> "longer".

There are a few points at which I found the usage of English peculiar
and over-wordy, such as at the top of page 3 where the text reads:
"The present model is meant for providing an efficacious prediction of
drag without obfuscated [sic] by grid and turbulence-modelling
dependence, the selection criteria of numerical convergence, and
lengthy computational time experienced by the computational fluid
dynamics method."

First sentence, page 9: "condition" --> "conditions", and surely
"invalid" --> "valid"?  Two sentences following, "appropriately" -->
"appropriate".

Caption, figure 8: add "for a circular disk" to the end of sentence 1.

First sentence, p.11 "While" --> "Since".

Page 13, line before equation 22: there seems to be a misplaced
cross-reference to "Discussion".

Page 17, last para. "The solution of the two equations are depicted in
Fig 19 ...". Which "two equations" are being considered?  And "are"
--> "is".
