TITLE:        On pressure invariance, wake width and drag prediction of a
	      bluff body in confined flow

AUTHORS:      WWH Yeung

SUBMITTED TO: Journal of Fluid Mechanics

REVIEW:	      Second


1. I still have difficulty with the issue of generality of the method,
as the more general a method is the greater its appeal.  The author in
some places (e.g. in the title) suggests that the method is general
but on the other hand gives a listing of particular bluff bodies to
which the method has been applied. This happens both in the Abstract
and in the Discussion. Please state if the method is supposed to apply
generally to confined bluff bodies and what inputs are required (for
example, the separation pressure coefficient in the case of bodies
with curved separation zones). If the method cannot be applied to
general confined bluff bodies, provide guidance on which classes of
bluff bodies it is likely to be applicable to, and why.

2. Regarding the use of curve fitting, I do not find this
objectionable. The point I was trying to make was that in various
places empirical relations are introduced without their being stated
as such, so that the reader is left to wonder if they have some
theoretical basis. I think that this could mostly be cleared up by
careful choice of wording. For example, prior to equation (24) one
could state that the data "for a normal flat plate become
*approximately* independent of blockage ratio ...". Then it would be
clearer that the expression to be introduced is empirically based. Or
this could be explicitly stated. 

I would also be happier if the author were to include in the
Discussion a version of this statement made in his rejoinder to the
previous review:

    "Continuity is first used to deduce the important parameter
    (1-\epsilon) for blocked flow. Only its exponent is to be
    introduced next. Interestingly the simple functional dependence
    (1-\epsilon)^n, where n depends on the geometry, leads to
    realistic results for the variety of bluff bodies considered."

I think this would serve to clarify the issue for the reader.
				   
