TITLE:        A numerical simulation of flow structure around an
              oscillating rectangular cylinder in a confined flow

AUTHORS:      Suh-Jenq Yang and Wu-Shung Fu

SUBMITTED TO: Computers and Fluids

REVIEW:	      First


SUBJECT MATERIAL
----------------

The authors describe a 2D numerical investigation of flow past a
rectangular cylinder in a channel.  The cylinder can oscillate
crossflow with presecribed motion.  A finite element--ALE primitive
variable penalty method is used, with quadratic elements and first
order time differencing.  Results are presented mainly in the form of
sequences of flow streamlines and velocity timseries at a single point
in the wake.  For all the flows examined, vortex shedding locks to the
cylinder motion frequency.  Results from five simulations are
presented; the rectangular section is a square for all but one
simulation, while the channel blockage is 10% for all but one
simulation.

SUMMARY
-------

This manuscript is unsuitable for publication in Computers and Fluids
and should be rejected.  The authors use an established numerical
technique, so there is nothing novel on the numerical side, while the
level of treatment of the fluid mechanics is purely descriptive and
adds little to what is apparent from a cursory examination of the
figures.  A reader hoping to find some information that might
differentiate the behaviour from that which might occur as a result of
flow past an oscillating circular cylinder for example would find
little material of use.  Likewise a reader hoping for an analysis of
how the flows are affected by increase in channel blockage would find
little information, other than that periodic flow became established
more rapidly as blockage was increased (in a single variation).

The manuscript is unacceptable without very substantial revision and
addition of new material -- given that the numerical method is
well-established, the revisions and new material would have to treat
the fluid mechanics in far greater depth.

OTHER ISSUES
------------

At the Reynolds number chosen (500), any real wake flow would be
three-dimensional, a point the authors have not addressed.

There is nothing to indicate that the flow past the stationary
cylinder is unsteady.  One would certainly expect the 2D flow past a
stationary rectangular cylinder at this Reynolds number to exhibit a
periodic Karman-street wake.  The fact that it does not, according to
these simulatoin results, gives rise to concern about the spatial and
temporal convergence of the numerical scheme.  It also means that the
flows past the ocillating cylinders cannot be parameterised in terms
of the ratio of oscillation frequency to the natural Strouhal
frequency, a basic dimensionless group for these problems.

There is a large number of grammatical errors, however these are all
fairly minor and the authors' meaning is usually clear.

