TITLE:        Direct numerical simulation of three-dimensional flow
	      past a yawed cylinder of infinite length
              
AUTHORS:      Zhao, Cheng & Zhou

SUBMITTED TO: J Fluids Structures

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

DNS of flow past a cylinder whose axis is yawed to the freestream at
various angles up to 60 degrees, using a hexahedral/trilinear finite
element method. The nominal and constant Re based on the freestream
speed (not on the axis-normal speed) and cylinder diameter is 1000,
although resolution may be somehwat marginal. Wake is 3D/turbulent.

RECOMMENDATION

As this information is relatively novel and potentially useful I
recommend that the manuscript be accepted subject to the authors
addressing the points below.

MAJOR POINTS

1. The authors should tell us if the pressure and velocity shape
functions are of the same order (I believe they probably are).

2. It seems that another way of tackling the problem would have been
to keep the same mesh geometry throughout and modify the yaw angle of
the inflow. The authors should tell us why they chose instead to shear
the geometry.  And: why not use periodic boundaries in the axial
direction?

3. In general, I was rather disappointed that the authors did not
present us with more information derived from their simulation
database. For example, Reynolds stresses and cylinder-surface shear
stress distributions should be shown (and from the latter they could
show us y+ values of the first off-wall grid point, since it is
typically recommended that this be less than unity in DNS).

4. A related point: the duration and commencement of collection of
statistics needs to be provided.  Judging from figures 4 and 13, it
would have been reasonable to commence accumulation of statistics
after the first 150 time units had elapsed.

5. What was the initial condition for each simulation and was the flow
perturbed in any way?

6. What exactly were the details of the meshes used? Just before the
start of section 3.2 we are told that the mesh densities employed in
the present study "are comparable to that of the fine mesh in table
1". Are they the same as the fine mesh, or different?

MINOR POINTS

1. Use of English needs closer attention by the authors since there
are a fair number of spelling and grammatical errors, as well as
inappropriate use of colloquialisms. A small selection: Global
replacement: "circumstance" -> "circumference"; Conclusion point (2):
"principle" -> "principal"; in section 3.2: "are in screwy shapes" ->
"exhibit helical shapes" and "reversely" -> "conversely".

2. Below equation (1): p is not the pressure but is the "kinematic" or
"modified" pressure, i.e. pressure divided by density.

3. The manuscript has no page numbers.
