TITLE:        The optimal control of cylinder wake by electromagnetic
              force based on the adjoint flow field
              
AUTHORS:      Zhang, Fan & Chen

SUBMITTED TO: European J Mechanics B Fluids

REVIEW:	      First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

The manuscript describes a method for suppression of vortex shedding
in a 2D cylinder wake by application of Lorentz forcing, where the
amount of forcing is computed via optimal control theory.

RECOMMENDATION

This was an interesting paper and I will support publication if the
authors can address a number of fundamental concerns as set out below.

MAJOR POINTS

1. Originality. It seems quite possible that the present manuscript
   could be quite similar to Reference 16 "Nonlinear optimal control
   of cylinder wake for drag reduction via electro-magnetic force" by
   Fan, Zheng, Chen & Dong. We need statements as to how the present
   work differs from that one. Could the authors supply a copy of that
   manuscript?

2. I'm sorry to have to say that the standard of English usage,
   grammar and spelling is not acceptable. I suggest the authors pay
   more attention to this aspect before submitting a revision.

3. In the Abstract it is first stated that "it is proved that the
   globe [sic] enstrophy is equal to the total squared strain field"
   and then in the last sentence "The globe [sic] enstrophy is kept to
   be equal to the total squared strain field in the whole control
   process". One finds a similar statement at the end of the
   Conclusions. If the two things are by definition equal then surely
   no special steps need to be taken to ensure they are kept
   equal. Please either remove these statements or clarify the point
   being made.

4. If possible, please compare the amount of forcing required to
   stabilize the flow to the predictions and stability boundaries
   obtained by Weier, Gerbeth & Posdziedch.

5. Doesn't the amount of forcing required for optimal control depend
   on the parameter l^2 introduced in section 5? If l^2 were very
   large then presumably total suppression of vortex shedding would not
   necessarily be obtained for optimal control.  What was the value of
   l^2 used? Could we see how the results vary with l^2?

6. A related point: it is not clear that the amount of forcing is
   indeed optimal. Perhaps the amount of forcing applied is much
   larger than required to minimize the cost function. The authors
   need to convince us that they have optimized the cost function.

7. Please could the central theory and results be put into context in
   relation to other work (such as that by Bewley et al.)?

8. In figures 6 and 7 it is not clear what the ordinate of these plots
   are or even what the plots represent. The plots are said to be
   "proportion distributions". Is the ordinate a number of grid points
   (perhaps weighted by cell area)? How are the authors able to
   provide the spatial localization of the regions 1-4 in figure 6?
   Should these labels also appear on figure 7?

MINOR POINTS

1. Fonts of symbols seem to change at various points through the
   manuscript - this is rather confusing. For example the symbol N
   appears in slanting and regular font, and for labelling both the NS
   equations (with subscript (q)) and the magnitude of magnetic
   forcing. The symbol F appears both in slanted bold font and in
   upright "blackboard" bold font.

2. I suggest that before the equation at the top of page 6 we be told
   this is the dimensionless Lorentz force, rather than at the end of
   the following paragraph.

3. Why is the Frechet differential needed, for example near the end of
   page 6? Why not just a standard differential (apologies for this
   gap in my knowledge)? Also, four lines from the end of page 6, we
   are told that we are being given the Frechet differential of
   equation (9), which has not yet appeared. I think the authors mean
   equation (7).

4. Please make the background to figures 2, 3, 4 and 6 white instead
   of grey, to improve contrast.



