TITLE:        Primary growth of disturbances on a low-Reynolds number
	      airfoil at incidences

AUTHORS:      Zhou, Y & Wang, Z

SUBMITTED TO: J Fluid Mech

REVIEW:       First

SUBJECT MATERIAL

This is a numerical "implicit LES" i.e. marginally resolved DNS study
of flow past a SD7003 airfoil at small angles of attack. The flow has
an upper surface separation bubble and it becomes unstable through
receptivity near the LE to acoustic signals which derive from TE
shedding.  This much has been demonstrated previously, e.g. by Jones,
Sandberg & Sandham JFM 648.  Basically the same process is observed
here. There does seem also to be a much lower-frequency process at
work near the LE and that appears to be the main new finding. It is
not clear if this is an instability mechanism, or associated with
receptivity. The actual mechanism for that process is not pinned down
nor is a clear picture presented of the novel flow physics involved.

RECOMMENDATION

I do not believe this work addresses its main topic, novel physics of
suction surface instability mechanisms, in sufficient depth to warrant
publication in JFM.

MAIN POINTS

1. The main new findings are associated with low-frequency processes
near the LE but the authors only seem able to say that these are not
associated with known processes (TS waves or Lam-Rott
disturbances). In order to make the manuscript acceptable much more
effort would need to be put into identifying the physics and mechanics
of this process. Spectra of time series, velocity profiles and the
like, do not seem sufficient.

2. Clear motivation and direction for the work is not established in
the Introduction. While various points that remain unresolved in the
literature are listed, the authors do not give clear indication which
points they seek to resolve, and how.  This is the statement of
motivation at the start of the last paragraph of the Introduction:
"The current study focuses on the primary growth of disturbances on a
low-Reynolds number airfoil at incidences, and aims at providing
possible strategies of flow control abd improving the aerodynamic
design of airfoils". While it does address the first of these aims, it
does not do so in sufficient depth or novelty, and it completely fails
to address the second in a substantive way.

3. For the length of paper presented there is too much emphasis and
space devoted to numerical methods as opposed to flow physics and
interpretation. About one third of the paper is devoted to numerical
methods and validation studies. This material should be briefly
introduced, and the reader referred elsewhere for more detailed
treatments where appropriate or possible.

OTHER POINTS TO BE ADDRESSED

4. I was surprised to find no reference made to the following recent
conference paper "AIAA 2010-4626: Simulation of Transitional Flow over
Airfoils using the Spectral Difference Method, by Castonguay, Liang
and Jameson", which also addresses transitional flow over the SD7003
airfoil at alpha=4 degrees, and also employs the spectral difference
method with "implicit large eddy simulation" at Re=60,000. Many of the
results and analyses presented in that work seem at least
superficially similar to those presented here. Since the present
authors had a related paper (AIAA-2010-4442) in what I assume to be
the same conference it seems likely they already know of that work.

5. Hunt and co-workers, not Dubeif and Delcayre, should be given
credit for introduction of the Q-criterion (positive 2nd invariant of
VG tensor) for coherent structure identification in vortical flows.

6. Spectra is the plural of spectrum. In figure 9, we should be told
of the averaging methodologies used to find these spectra, since they
seem to exhibit a large degree of statistical variability. One would
expect that enough averaging (either in time or frequency) be employed
to make the spectra smooth and the statistical reliability large. I
would not be at all surprised to learn that if better statistical
reliability were obtained it would be found that omega_3=omega_4 for
case-2 (alpha=2 degrees) in table 2 (which is precisely what is found
for cases 4 and 6).  Quantities for spectral densities should be
supplied for the vertical scales.
